Michi Rossmeier: Beta!

Peter Vana: Noch hochtig nicht.

Michi Rossmeier: How come…

Peter Vana: One hits it here in 3 moments.

Michi Rossmeier: wilt.

Peter Vana: I don't know. That was Michi.

Frank: Good evening.

Michi Rossmeier: Hello, hello! Bank, sellers.

Frank: Yeah, samos, Naktanifa, whatever word texture.

Michi Rossmeier: Hello, everyone!

Frank: Commission, my turn?

Peter Vana: Yeah, yeah, wirnt dich Frank.

Frank: Okay, thanks, Shun.

Michi Rossmeier: Super. This fightnich does it outside. Yeah. Sita.

Frank: Also find Drak.

Michi Rossmeier: Better Klam?

Peter Vana: Yeah, yeah, bust.

Michi Rossmeier: Both meetings, both me. Maybe, I don't know, Ibase, where… Deutsch. A war. denglish. awecken. von anderen… Landen in zus. Shot me a mic. Yeah. Car, then.

Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy: Hi, Rossi!

Michi Rossmeier: Hey, how are you doing?

Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy: I'm doing great, yourself, thanks!

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, good, good, great. Where from do you join?

Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy: From Canada, where I teach at the Launch Pad Windsurf Academy. Perfect. And I use your Trictionary books, every lesson I get.

Michi Rossmeier: Amazing, amazing. Great to hear. I hope, it works. But otherwise, you wouldn't, you would have thrown it away already, right? Great. Hello, hello. Spade a few minutes. SBC Productions.

SBC Productions: Hi.

Michi Rossmeier: Hey, where are you joining from?

SBC Productions: United States, New Jersey.

Michi Rossmeier: Amazing. Cool. What time is it for you?

SBC Productions: Audio. Yeah, I almost missed that. It's only, 1 o'clock here.

Michi Rossmeier: Good, yeah.

SBC Productions: Here we go. The audio sounds okay?

Michi Rossmeier: Yes, yes, mine as well? I hope so.

SBC Productions: Yes, yeah, everything's good. Thanks.

Michi Rossmeier: rent. Great. It's just a few thousand kilometers away, right? Yeah.

SBC Productions: It's like nothing now.

Michi Rossmeier: Pretty amazing, huh?

SBC Productions: Yes, right? Modern times.

Michi Rossmeier: Pretty amazing, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, cool. So I will, speak in English so everybody understands, right?

Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy: Feeling Doug?

Michi Rossmeier: Unless you ask me to switch to German. No. No, it's good, it's good. I think everyone, will understand it's great to have, like-minded people together, and I started… I thought I had to do something to, you know, meet people that I don't always meet, so it's for you guys, I mean, in the US, or all over the world, or Peter, he was with me in a camp, and we meet… quite a few times. We met quite a few times, so we are in touch, every now and then. Same with Frank. And so… but, you know, it's hard to stay in touch, and so I thought, let's, start something, and I thought I would start with a Q&A, where… I will introduce a few things that are… going on in my… in my dictionary business, and, and in Wingfoiling for me, and also, yeah, the camps, the events that I do, and so on, and, and yeah, and then see who has questions other than that. Yeah, so I think I will just start. Let's see if, you know, if others come in, then… They will be… they will have to ask, and will… Maybe let them know. So, yeah. One thing, so why I did this, is, yeah, to meet and, to answer a few questions, some people ask me already, when do the new books come out? Well, that's what people ask me all the time, so… and that's what I'm always thinking about, when are those books coming out? I'm now working on the Freestyle edition. It will be called Advanced and Freestyle, because it will have everything. I don't know if you know the… for the wingfoiling, I'm talking wingfoiling here. Somebody asked me if this is also for windsurfing, and yes, I am happy to answer and support windsurfing still and always, you know? But yeah, the latest book will be about advanced techniques in wingfoiling and freestyle, and I… and it will… attached right where the basics and Freeride Edition ended, so it will not cover the basic drives, but it will cover everything from there, and a lot of people are waiting for it and ask me all the time. And I am working on it. I, plan to finish it for Christmas this year. Which, of course, will be a challenge, because it's, Christmas comes quickly, especially when you have to print before. You know, and it has to be there before Christmas, but, Christmas, end of the year is always a good, a good moment. Last year, I just made it just a bit too late, almost, like, yeah, you know. I think books arrived on the 19th of December, which is a… I mean, it was a big Christmas present for me, but it was hard to get it to everyone. But it was a very good present for myself, working on it for such a long time, to finish it, finally. And, yeah, and the Advanced and Freestyle Edition will… yeah, it will cover all the basics of freestyle. go, have focus, chapters for, of course, for all the basic jibes, everything that everyone can learn very quickly, and then we go to all the crazy, variations. I'm working also, I don't know if you saw in the first, book, I'm working with, Dr. Beach Steffen. He's… I don't know if you saw him, he's doing, he's posting daily on Instagram, his, his moves, and we're working closely together to get Hey, Marieke! Hello, hello.

Marieke: Hi!

Michi Rossmeier: Hello, hello.

Marieke: Ben.

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, I'm just talking about the freestyle edition of the book that is gonna come. It will take a bit more time, but I hope for Christmas it will be there. And… Yes.

Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy: Will you let us… will you let us vote on the cover picture again? That was awesome, and I think you got the right one with the towside riding.

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah? You like that one? Yeah, I… it was my favorite, too. It was my favorite, too. You did a great job voting. Yes, of course I will… I would do that again. I found it so exciting to check every, you know, like, check it, please update, update who's voting what. It's very, it's very exciting, yeah. Yeah, I like that. Also, it's… it's not so easy, because all those things, it's kind of me doing everything, so it's sometimes hard to put those things together, but I think the cover vote was really cool. The amazing thing Because you don't, you know, the photo here, it was done, at Lake Garda in one morning, And we took so many photos, and the other photos were from that session as well, and it was so many, so good photos, because it was so crystal… clear skies, and the water was amazing, and we… it was just perfect, so it was really hard to decide. So let's see what the, Freestyle addition will bring. I hope we can get a shoot like that, but that's my smallest worry, of course. The content, has to be… done, you know? And, Yeah, just what I want to say is that it will, focus on the… because people sometimes think freestyle, oh no, freestyle, it's too much for me. Of course, it will contain all the latest, freestyle tricks. I was shooting already in Tarifa quite a lot with Tom, Alex, Rocco, Javi, and a lot of other Marlo, and so on, with Chris, and so on. So we have the latest tricks, and the best execution, for sure, but I will put a lot of focus on those tricks that I'm usually teaching in camps, which are the basic tricks that bring you to that level. To, you know, that you can step up, that everyone can step up. And I found that, wingfoiling is amazing. I was just, the last two weeks, I was doing private coaching, here with family in Lake Garda, and the kid was just learning to jump. You know, one move after the other, and it's so amazing to see that, And, yeah, and it's really approachable for everyone, so that's why, jumping will come, and if you… you know, I don't know if you guys jump already, but if you guys, say, no jumping, no way, but at some point, you will want to jump somehow, and it's just so cool, right? Do you jump?

Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy: Yeah, I'm working on the landing now.

Michi Rossmeier: Good. for you, yeah, yeah. Yeah, that's what I'm also… many times when I start teaching jumping, I… it is something to, you know. Think about beforehand, about the landings. So, yeah, something to… to focus and think about, trying to… to jump. And land softly and a bit slowly, and yeah. Yeah, yeah, I mean, that's the… that's the thing for everyone, yeah. But, you know, so I found really, nice in… in, the step… stepping stones in wingfoiling is, that, you know, we can step it up very, very gradually. Hello, Jean-Claude, hello.

Jean-Claude Champagne: Oh, I see.

Michi Rossmeier: Thank you. And, yeah, so you can really step it up very, very gradually, and not have any, any crazy moments where you have to go all in, and whatever, and commit, and so on. Just thinking back, windsurfing, forward loops, there's no… not… there's exercises, but at the end you have to, you know, you have to commit, or any… anything like windsurfing, air drives, whoever went into windsurfing and tried jumping and rotational moves, it's really hard work. And in wingfoiling, we have… it's just amazing how we can use the foil to jump and jump just this high. And do some rotation to learn it, and then we can step it up and go higher. So, I will do a lot of that in the Freestyle edition. I prepared a lot of exercises on the beach, and… which is… which is amazing, that you can actually really practice in lightweight days. You can practice so many techniques that will help them in In, on the water.

Jean-Claude Champagne: Oh, no. They go on that, huh.

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, so that was one question. When is the Freestyle Edition coming out?

Jean-Claude Champagne: It must be.

Michi Rossmeier: Jean-claude, you are from France, or where are you from?

Jean-Claude Champagne: No, I'm from Canada, from Quebec, Montreal. I'm on vacation now.

Michi Rossmeier: Oh, that's a…

Jean-Claude Champagne: But the cottage is around a very small lake, so I do mostly windsurfing, but I'm not too good at it.

Michi Rossmeier: Yet…

Jean-Claude Champagne: So I practice a lot.

Michi Rossmeier: Very good.

Jean-Claude Champagne: Thank you.

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, yeah, so then, there's the other question that was there, and I don't know if it… I was just asking if you're from France, because there was some people asking when is the… when are the… language editions, Italian, Spanish, and French, are coming out of the Basics and Freeride edition of the Wingfoil book, and I will, I will have to say, the Italian and Spanish is, I probably can't do it in print, I will probably do it in, in a digital version, so that answers another question. When are digital versions coming? Which, I believe will be in, in maybe 2 months or so, in a spec… in a, in a, in a… In a specific app? In an extra app? yeah, it has reasons… I mean, the books, they are not just normal books that can be read in a e-book reader, and that's why I have to make an app for that, and really allow people to maybe see page by page with a video, and so on. So that's also something in the works. The French edition, I might print it, I'm still thinking about it. It's really hard to print nowadays. Printing costs go up. I think people just print less and less, so… It's… it's getting more and more expensive.

Jean-Claude Champagne: But…

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, I mean, we will for sure do a translated edition for French,

Jean-Claude Champagne: Yes.

Michi Rossmeier: Then… So far, anyone has questions?

Jean-Claude Champagne: I'm not… You know what I'm saying?

Michi Rossmeier: Okay then I… I wanted to say, yeah, so I do a lot of camps nowadays,

Jean-Claude Champagne: If I could do so.

Michi Rossmeier: Next week, I have a very cool camp coming up at Lake Garda, 3 days. It's already full, but the week after, 14th to 16th of August, I don't know if someone of you… maybe the Canadians can, from US, you can come over to Lake Garda, you know? I have some free spots in the freestyle camp here, we do Friday, Saturday, Sunday. And, And, it is from… we have… it's kind of… it's boot camp, so you can maximize, you know, in this time, because we start at 7.30 in the morning, and we go till 6 in the evening. Because we have a lot of wind at Lake Garda, usually, in the mornings and in the afternoons, so we have session after session, we go, yeah, through all the tricks that everyone wants to learn.

Jean-Claude Champagne: Did I talk now?

Michi Rossmeier: And, and yeah, and we address anything that is coming up, of course.

Jean-Claude Champagne: Of course.

Michi Rossmeier: In those camps, it's kind of… Yeah, kind of what I do in private, lessons, but then with a few more people. I mean, you know how chemists work. Then… What else do we have? I will do a camp in Tenerife in November. I don't know if someone wants to join, or is around there. there will be a camp in the middle of November, because I have a very good, set up there, I think. They have very good, opportunities to do downwinders, and to really, yeah, to really enjoy all the conditions there with all their support, in their data now.

Jean-Claude Champagne: Since the boy Michi was Mayor. No, no, no, so… Pleased to meet you. This is my wife, Martin.

Michi Rossmeier: Very nice meeting you.

Jean-Claude Champagne: Yeah.

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, so that's, the camps, Elmer now. I…

Jean-Claude Champagne: Oh, boy.

Michi Rossmeier: I think, Peter, you were interested in the camp in Tarifa, no? So I… I'm… there's, the idea comes from… from Beat, from my good friend Beat Stefan. He, thought about doing a Mastery 50-plus camp. And he will do one in Egypt, I don't know when exactly. Yeah, and I was thinking to do one in Tarifa, so I didn't put the dates yet. I will be in Tarifa from the 10th of September, approximately. And if I can have enough people together, I would love to do a camp like that. I may have, like, two, three people for now. And… Somebody was ringing my phone, which I switched off. Oh, Joachim is coming, a very famous Swedish. Guy here, and hello, welcome, Joachim.

Joachim Larsson (2): Thank you.

Michi Rossmeier: Hey, nice to meet you again after a long, long time, many years.

Joachim Larsson (2): Yeah, yeah, I was just… I mean, tell you.

Michi Rossmeier: that I might do the Camp Mastery 50 Plus in Tarifa. I don't know, are you 50+, Joachim?

Joachim Larsson (2): Yes? Yes.

Michi Rossmeier: So, you are welcome.

Joachim Larsson (2): I have lots of friends.

Michi Rossmeier: You have lots of friends? Bring them! They are very welcome, too. Yeah. Yeah, so, so this is… the idea comes from my friend Beat, Pete Stefan, who you may know from, Dwarf8, which you see in on Instagram or so, and, and he's, yeah, his idea is… Because he did the… may know, or Carl as well, he did the Windsurfing Kama Sutra.

Frank: Easy.

Michi Rossmeier: Or, you know that? You remember that, Fran?

Frank: Back in the days. Back in the days.

Michi Rossmeier: It is, yes. So his idea was, was, or is, it was for windsurfing, and he did it. He made,

Joachim Larsson (2): Oh, gamma.

Michi Rossmeier: A video where he showed a short clip of every single move in windsurfing. I think I have to mute someone,

Joachim Larsson (2): Spiessa.

Michi Rossmeier: For your kids. speaking Joachim, so we don't hear that. Sorry, I'm unmuting you. So, yeah, his idea was to… put together a DVD with a collection of every single trick there was in windsurfing, and he did that, and now, of course, his idea is to put the same together for wingfoiling. And he is at 1,000 move variations already. He himself, he… he said it is, he's doing it too much, but… But the very interesting thing that I found when I did the podcast recording with him. So, he is using that because he goes very methodically, and that can be very interesting for everyone who goes riding a lot. And he is using that, to write down, like, every single little variation that he does, to track his progress. So… by improving every day a tiny bit and doing another variation, he is actually more motivated to do even more, and he stays motivated to Wingfoil as much as possible, and he's on the water a lot. He's, like, on the water all the time. So, it's a very interesting thing to do, you know, to, keep track of what you learn, and then keep track of even the smallest steps that you do forward, but… Yes.

SBC Productions: So, like, I was already beginning to get, like, a bad guy.

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, So I'm working closely with him, and we will put a lot of his tricks in that book. sorry, I was with the Mastery 50+, so he's doing a camp in Egypt. If you're interested, I can, of course, hook you up with the details of that, and otherwise, I… if somebody's interested in a Mastery 50+, where we do, Anything for everyone, from any level, stepping up, step by step. in a like-minded group, we can for sure do that, you know? Just get in touch, and we see, what we can do. I have, like I said, I have, like, two two people interested now, who said they want to come to Tarifa in either September or October. And, and can be very nice. Also, Peter, you said you were interested A little bit, no?

Peter Vana: Right.

Michi Rossmeier: Tarifa, last time, how was your experience, Tarifa? It's a bit rough sometimes.

Peter Vana: Yeah.

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah? But this time, I will get… I will hook you up with, with the proper gear, also. We will make sure this… it's all perfect, right? And, yeah, I remember you were… sometimes you were struggling. It is sometimes rough in Tarifa, but we found… I mean, the conditions are a bit advanced, you know, but there's cool… There's also cool conditions. Once you can handle a little bit of swell outside in the ocean, then you can do a very nice introduction into downwinders. There is, of course, places you can go from Tarifa where it's not sometimes… because sometimes we have, like, 3, 4, 5 days of 40 knots or more, and then, if you don't like that, you can… we can, travel to another place. We drive one hour or something, and then we have perfect weather for a 4-meter four and a half wing, and so we can really move around, because I'm most of the year in Tarifa, and so we know the… I know the place, and it has very nice conditions to offer. It's also very close to nature, it's not big, huge hotels and stuff, but very nice level, very nice, Old Town and so on, and yeah, and I would organize… I would love to organize something there for a small group of people, but it's not as organized yet as in Tenerife in November, the 14th to 21st. I kind of put the dates yesterday, so… Yeah, should be very nice when in Europe, in the Central Europe, it cools down. It is still Borch in Tenerife, in Al-Medano. And flights should be good, flights should be cheap. I don't know how it is from Canada and the US, but, you know, we probably have to do a camp in Canada or at the US at some point, right?

Joachim Larsson (2): We can make it like a surf trip. You fly into Malaga.

SBC Productions: That's good.

Joachim Larsson (2): rent a surf bus, and then you travel there to Tarifa, live in the bus, and do wingfoiling.

Michi Rossmeier: Yes, that's… I mean, if you can do that, perfect. You're even perfect, yes. I mean, that'd be perfect. Anyway, if you go to Tarifa, you can always fly to… it's pretty good, well connected. You fly to Malaga or to Sevilla, and usually people rent cars anyway, because it's a two-hour drive, and it's a beautiful drive from Malaga to Tarifa, it's pretty nice. Drive also, and and then you have your rental car, and you can throw in your gear into the car, you leave it there, it's pretty safe. I do that as well, and… and… I mean, also there's a lot of, campers, like you say, like a surf trip. But, I don't know how many 50-plus mastery students want to do a surf trip in the van. Maybe it's back to the roots? Could be an interesting idea. I see Frank, I see Frank! Yeah…

Frank: No, no, let's go on.

Michi Rossmeier: sneakily.

Frank: It was more like this, but… sorry, I was, no, I'm… that's a good idea, actually. What I would love to have is a kind of, camp where you offer, vents where people can live in and, and travel along the coast and have different, spots where you can teach us. That should be awesome.

Michi Rossmeier: That would be pretty cool, huh? That would be… but that's another level of trip. And then… and then, the next, funny thing would be going, on a catamaran or something, and, you know. Riding around and winging from there.

Frank: Yeah, if you are not getting seasick like I do. I'm out, I'm out.

Michi Rossmeier: Ouch.

SBC Productions: That's not true.

Michi Rossmeier: One less.

Frank: Unfortunately.

Joachim Larsson (2): But quite soon with Tarifa, because you can take you down with the airstride, you know, from Thursday to Sunday. And rent a road surfer. It's a big company in Europe. It's a perfect, you know, it's, Wells Fog in California. You can have a big one, or a smaller one, and… I think that can be something for lots of our guys who have served since, you know, beginning of 80th, and all of us, we're foiling now, Wingfoiling, you know. It's new people coming on. every week. And lots of different progression here. Some is quite skilled. But you can, every session, you can learn something new. And I think that is one of the most important things to have you on. No one will be in the same skills. It's more or less that they are in different skills. So just be on the beach, speak with people, watch them, just progress them all the day. I think that is a way…

Michi Rossmeier: That's… That's… that's what I usually do, yeah, yeah, yeah. But I like to, go on the water with everyone, and the cool thing that it… I love that in Wingfoiling. Windsurfing, I did… I tried this, and I have to tell you, well, we don't have… I don't know if, someone of that temp was… is there, but I had a camp with 3 people. And you know, there's those… upwind people, there's people who stay in the place where they started from, and there's the downwind people. You know that?

Joachim Larsson (2): Oof.

Michi Rossmeier: So I had 3 different people, and I had… and I was in a camp with them, and then we were windsurfing, so we were going to the other side of the lake, and I had one, two, three, four hundred meters upwind, one, two, three hundred meters downwind, and one with me. I had no chance to reach them, you know, like, and then wingfoiling. I handled, well, we… it was with… with two other coaches, but we handled 18 kids, in the beginning of July in the Youngblood camp. 18 kids, not, you know, they're normally going whatever… wherever, you know, but… it is possible, you know? You're just like, oh, did we forget this guy, or did this guy go to the beach? I will go check. I'm going there, coming back. In 5 minutes, I'm back. Even if I have to go upwind 500 meters, it's not a problem.

Joachim Larsson (2): Santa Claus.

Michi Rossmeier: thing is that we can sit down, you know? Like, we just go somewhere. sit down and talk, and we sit next to each other, and we just talk about the move, and I can show it, and so that's what I usually love to do. I always go on the water with people. I feel also that showing the thing that I'm teaching is very important. For me, and for them to understand, you know? Of course, showing the techniques first on the beach. In, if possible, with the simulator, the grab technique, talking about it, visualizing it. is very important, but it's not easy for everyone to understand if, you know, if some… some people, they have really hard time to understand where's the wind actually coming from, how do I stand on the board, and so on. And it's better they go… we go in the water, and they… we just copy it. I'm just doing stuff, and they just copy right after. It's, it's good fun also. Sometimes they do stuff. And they did… they're not even aware of it, but they just copied it.

SBC Productions: Stuckily.

Michi Rossmeier: And then it's… it's pretty cool, because it gives… it's just amazing how much progress you can do in a very short time, right? I mean, you must see that, Joachiman, if, like, would you say that every… week, there's some new people, and then, you know, we all see that. I mean, Carl, you know it, from… from your, Launch Pad Academy, was it, right?

Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy: The kids are crazy. I had a pair of 50-year-old parents and their 21-year-old kid who hadn't windsurfed for 15 years, and he was getting up on the foil on his first day, and the parents were going and taxiing, but they weren't really getting up on the foil yet.

Joachim Larsson (2): Hmm.

Michi Rossmeier: But even then, but even then, you, you, I mean, there's, people starting, at, I don't know, at 70 or something. A friend of mine, I think, he's not here now, no, but I mean, he started,

SBC Productions: Nope.

Frank: She's gone?

Michi Rossmeier: surfing.

Frank: I… Oh.

SBC Productions: Hang over.

Michi Rossmeier: Don't tell me I am off.

SBC Productions: I have a picture, and she…

Frank: How long were you a bank?

Michi Rossmeier: I was… oh my god, I was stuck. I hope I'm still here. Yeah, so, he started wingfoiling at 70, which is… is amazing, you know? So, we can start that wingfoiling in a very high age, we can, progress, always in a very… In every age, it's amazing, you know? Absolutely.

Joachim Larsson (2): All… every session, it's a new… Learning curve, and… I think that is the most important thing now. To take the step every time. And I think with your books. Connect with your books before you go to the clinics, you know? different topics, connect with your books, go down there on the beach, and just teach them what they want to teach. And I think I have not-so-wing foilers, I can come to a place, you know, I can have 10 people with me, no problem. But you need to be there on the beach. So…

Michi Rossmeier: I'm on the beach. People think I'm working, I'm on the beach, you know?

Joachim Larsson (2): You have never worn.

Michi Rossmeier: joking.

Joachim Larsson (2): Rossier.

Michi Rossmeier: You know, the thing is, when, this is the funny thing, people always think that I'm on holiday. Everywhere I am and I'm going, I'm on holiday. They think, but I'm always kind of working. The thing is just that work feels like, you know, work feels like play, and so I'm playing all day long.

Joachim Larsson (2): I do very nice books, and you know lots of things. But now it's the wing foiling, it's the big… A wave now, all people wants to touch the wing foiling. You know, old people, new people. girls, women, Everyone. And the only… that we need to pass. People say, I want to test. But I always say to people, how much do you want to invest? Because you need to invest time and money To succeed, because it's step by step. You know, it's not… not like windsurfing. You can go test. Here, you need to have your own gears to success. So, the step, I think, is the gears. But I, I work with lots of people. I'll say that it starts with four, four cows, 4,000 euro. It starts from there. If you not invest 4,000 euro, you cannot join. And…

Michi Rossmeier: Well, you can… you can start, people start, I, I mean, yeah, there is this thing, right? They need to… this is the… the problem. If you buy gear right from the start, you have… probably in one month, two big gear that… well, you can teach your family and friends then, but, you know, you need to invest still, and then you need to invest again. So, yeah, sometimes, of course. But you're right, I mean, 4,000 or something, 3,000, 4,000 is the minimum. A big problem that I see is then when people don't know, it's better. That's why I try to put that in the book. Also, that, people, when they don't know about Wingfoiling, about the gear, they have nobody to ask, and then they go on eBay or whatever, or on the… on the, you know, yeah, on the… on the… on the secondhand market, and buy something that is very cheap, and it's then so many generations old. That we've been foiled with it, but it makes it so much harder than the latest here.

Joachim Larsson (2): Yes, yes.

Michi Rossmeier: it's… it's really for… you see people struggle a lot, and it's sometimes hard. I'm going there, and I'm like, oh, yeah, how do I tell him it's all… You know, it's all so old, and so… such a trash, and, you know. Not easy, but… You know what it is, right.

Joachim Larsson (2): I tried to explain that It's, it's stairs, or steps. And then, if you invest in the right way. you can add on. You can switch, for example, one phone, one board, one ring. And you can always add. And I think that is one of the most important things here, to understand what these steps are, and that you invest in something you can grow into. I invest in my own digital stuff, you know, and I start with Sky, I think. Now I'm everything in DLAB, you know, because I love the sport. But I have not buying this. direct. I add on. add on, a small crew. Hello! It's like… Joachim is like…

Michi Rossmeier: buying surfboards, you know? You can never have enough surfboards or stuff like that, you know? Surfer's Garage, and Wingfoiler's Garage, and Surfer's Garage, you know?

Joachim Larsson (2): No, but you're stuck in.

Michi Rossmeier: up.

Joachim Larsson (2): I think two foil is other, because you can have one board, and you can have two foils, you know, good foils, maybe two wings. You can… it can be enough with two wings in most of the conditions. Of course, I have 3 wings. But, and when you get more and more skills, you don't need a big wing. So I think the sport gets… Easier, and easier, and easier, and more fun. And you can progress every time you go on the water. I think it's more important to explain that for people. What they can expect. And then, you're gonna have these people who wants to go to clinics. So it's just go to clinics to test. So I think… I usually…

Michi Rossmeier: I usually bring gear for testing as well, and…

Joachim Larsson (2): Okay.

Michi Rossmeier: many times I see it's very important to, you know. Many different types of gear now, many different types of foils, and, you know, even just a question on how big should your board be related to your body weight.

Joachim Larsson (2): True.

Michi Rossmeier: you know, or should I get this high aspect foil, or more the medium aspect, or what do I need? It's really a tricky thing now, nowadays, I mean, and then, especially if you, yeah, I mean, it's a tricky thing also if you once went into a brand and have the.

SBC Productions: Okay, excuse me.

Michi Rossmeier: Stuff coming, you know, and you have built up your foil, or your quiver, and then you want to change, or something, that's very tricky also. Yeah.

Joachim Larsson (2): So, therefore, it's so important to invest In something, you can grow into it.

Michi Rossmeier: Don't go. Jean-Claude has to go. If you have any questions, feel free to message, and I will for sure do another Q&A. Yeah, if you have anything to ask, always just message, yeah. Cool. Yeah, it's not easy, yeah? The gear, question, and then the investment. I mean, people have to invest a lot of money. If they want the latest gear, not everybody can do that. I have to say, I… I see… I mean, I'm, you know, I'm with Duotone, most of you probably know, and I… so I don't say it's the best, but I, I know the gear the best. I think it's one of the best, for sure. And… And so, what I see, for example, in the… like, for example, the wings, in the last 3 years, they were very good. Like, since they have the boom, I would say, which is, like, the two generations now, I would say the wing is very good, you know? If you don't need the boom, basically, you could even go to 2024 and have a very good wing. And, I mean, of course, if it's used and very old, okay, but you could even still buy a very good, if you find one. find one from until, like, 2 years ago, almost. The foils is a different question, or the boards is okay. You can also reuse it for many years, still. The foils is a big problem, of course, because it's something new coming out every half year, every year, and it's really a big step, what I feel. Carla has a question. Any comments on IWO and insurance for teaching? Sorry, I don't have much… knowledge there. Would need to research a bit. I don't know if anyone has, thoughts on that?

Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy: Insurance is a big deal for us in North America because of how people sue, and so in Canada, Sail Canada provides insurance for us when we actually have taken their courses. But their lessons aren't as extensive as what I've seen on the IWO website, which you know, takes from the IKO and centers around the world and so forth. So, curious for anyone who has done IWO certification, what they like or don't like, and whether the insurance, transfers to North America.

Michi Rossmeier: I don't know, do you know something about that? what's your name? SBC Portugal.

SBC Productions: Oh, it's Techno Mike. Aye.

Michi Rossmeier: Okay.

SBC Productions: That's my nickname, yeah, yeah. I don't know how to change my screen name, I was trying to change it. Insurance in North America? That's the question.

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, with the IWOO, you also don't know much about that.

SBC Productions: Yeah, there's a couple of insurers I talked around to a couple of the different places that teach. I think there was one out of… was there one out of Maui that they were using? That was, just a water sports insurance company. I forget the name, though. But, yeah, to Carl's point, it is very important. But, you know, just safety in general, and I think sometimes it's just a matter of fact, you know, matter of having a good waiver, you know, that's… Very well-worded and backed up by some kind of lawyer. You know, but insurance, yeah, for water sports, it's hard to find anything specific to wing foiling because it's so new, but there's just, you know, all the surfers in Florida and on the East Coast and stuff, they just have that blanket, water sports insurance. But I don't know the name offhand.

Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy: That, thanks.

SBC Productions: Yeah.

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, good, thank you, thank you. Yeah, in Europe, it's a bit easier, I guess. America is…

SBC Productions: Yeah.

Michi Rossmeier: No need to be difficult, right? I mean…

SBC Productions: Yeah.

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, So, I wanted to show you guys one thing, which… I don't know if you guys know my footstraps, and it's just, if you know them, it's good, and I have a new production coming, which is just the same footstrap, but, and I will share my screen, I… Want to know your opinion about, let me see if I can share the screen here… which one? This one. So, I… I'm coming in these colors, like, the full color. Do you see my screen?

Peter Vana: Yeah.

Michi Rossmeier: So, yeah, I have, these new colors coming, the blue and the gold, and then I will do a vote, because you like the voting, so I will do a vote for the third color that I will produce, and these are tested, I have to share and… Yeah, and let's see which one's where. Finder. I don't know if that works. try. You see the preview? If I show preview here… Are you seeing that? Yes.

Peter Vana: Yeah…

Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy: Oh, it's nice.

Michi Rossmeier: Those are… Do you like them?

SBC Productions: What's the material?

Michi Rossmeier: tested them. We tested them for quite a while now with Tom, Alex, and so on, and And they keep… the thing why I made… I never made them before is because they… they used… used to lose color in the sun quickly, but these are holding up very well. It's a new material that I was, testing. And,

Joachim Larsson (2): Why is this good? These food trucks. Why? Is the day or better than the summer? Or the county.

Michi Rossmeier: Wait, I'm… I'm sharing, so we see each other. Yeah, these footstraps, if you've never tried them… Joachim never tried my footstraps, that's cool.

Joachim Larsson (2): Noooo!

Michi Rossmeier: So…

Frank: No!

Michi Rossmeier: Oh, man, come on. So, the thing why those are better is, actually, so I made them for windsurfing, because in windsurf freestyle. We had these problems on that the whole pressure was on one point, always, with the thin straps, so either people had to make them really big and really, like, horseshoe-like, or they took my foot straps, or, you know, but… In windsurfing, it never took off like it did in wingfoiling. In wingfoiling, if you have those footstraps, and you go in fully in both, basically you have so much contact to the board that you're really, really stable, and you don't lose that board if you don't want to. But you can still get out if you, if you have to, if you want to. And that's the advantage. It gives you so much better control about the board, and so… it's… it's just when you start jumping, it's just so much safer, because you have the whole pressure on the… on all your… on all your… over all your foot, you know? And… and that's why, actually, last time, I was judging at the… Freestyle World Cup in Tarifa, and then I was sitting there, I was like, oh, okay. And then we started the competition, and I put out a paper and wrote down every name of rider who was riding my footstraps, and I was.

Frank: It's a logic.

Michi Rossmeier: And…

Frank: a lot.

Michi Rossmeier: It was almost easier to write down who was not riding my footstraps than to write down who is riding my footstraps. So I do very… way too little advertisement for them, but I am working on that, also with these new colors, and yeah, I mean, it's so many World Cup riders on those footstraps that it is… it's amazing, yeah, and they all love them, and I'm very happy about that, of course. And yeah. If you try them, I mean, you… yeah, it just feels so much better, you know?

Frank: So I have a question then for you, Michael. Is the strap, also available as a V-strap?

Michi Rossmeier: So the next.

Frank: 10 minutes.

Michi Rossmeier: problem. It's not yet available. I really, have to work on that, and I, I was thinking what to do, how to do it. This is the biggest problem that I have with the construction of a V-strap, yes, yes. So far…

Frank: Could I place them on top of each other, so that I make a V, or is it problematic? You need the longest crew, and it's not really safe, or do you have experience with that?

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, so I… I did that. So I have… there's two ways, and the… I did one… prototype, where I basically… I cut open two pieces… two parts of the footstrap, like, two ends, and I took out a few layers of the webbing, because there's, like, a lot of reinforcement there that you have to take out to use the original footstrap. And, And then it works, you can put them on top of each other, but the cover is not so nice anymore. And the other way, is… Sorry. The other way is to do, A piece that makes, basically, an adapter from from the one or two holes, ideally two holes, because it's… for me, one hole in the middle is, anyways, is a bit of a risk to have just one, you know? Like, you fuck up one block, and you have a problem, you know, with the board, you know? So, yeah, ideally two holes in the middle, and the two holes on the side that exactly, make them go close to each other, but not overlap. Kind of the distance that the duotone boards have for the two straps is just exactly the maximum that you can have. Or the minimum you can have to make them not overlap. So I'm working on that, but it's, yeah, it's a work in progress still, unfortunately, yeah. Which, boards are you on?

Frank: Me? Yes. Oh, who do you mean?

Michi Rossmeier: Yes, Frank, you were…

Frank: I'm on North, and the North boards, they, let's say they don't come with straps, which is, which is not good, so I had to invest. Yes, yes, and so I had to invest, and I bought the V-straps from, from North. And, they are very lightweight, and they don't suck water, so there is also something I… I fear is that with your straps, that they… I mean, that they get all sucked with water, right? But it's… it's a weight. Let's say you can ignore that question, it's, I think people don't care, but yeah, I'm writing notes.

Michi Rossmeier: It's a… I mean, it's a fair… a fair question, or fair thing. If you look at the straps, they look big, but if you look inside, actually, they have 1cm thick, AVA pad, so it's like the footpad that you have on your board, it doesn't suck water, so…

SBC Productions: Yeah.

Michi Rossmeier: 3 straps of mine weighed, like, four straps, 4 normal straps, so it's not much more,

Frank: Okay.

Michi Rossmeier: Yo. It's, it's really…

Frank: Give them a try.

Michi Rossmeier: suck much more. But what you say is, they're… the… it's not a downside, but the advantage of probably the straps that you are riding is when they are the kind of the termoformed ones that you can only adjust with holes, with screwing them, yeah? Yeah. So these are very good if you surf foil as well, because then you can lay on the board. With my foot straps laying on the board, the straps, they keep their shape, and that's why They are so good, because they really are like a binding. Like, you go in, you go in, and you even wiggle a bit in, and you are in these footstraps, and if you don't want to get out, you don't get out. If you jump, you don't want to lose it, you don't lose it. If you want to lose it, usually, you get out easily. That's the key thing, and now also, after many years, they are really, really, really durable. So, even Tom, Alex, Rocco, France, everybody who's… I mean, this, all of them are riding the footstrap. for years now, and the blue ones I made last year, I made, only 7 sets, so 7 times 3, and I gave them to all the riders. And only now they start to… to have to change them, kind of. So they are… they are… they're really durable for… for how long and how many times these… these guys are riding. So, yeah. After many years, I found good material, so… so it's very, very good. Joachim, I will send you the link to the strap. They are on my webshop,

SBC Productions: Yeah.

Michi Rossmeier: This… the page that I showed you is just, it's… it's a voting page where I will let people vote for the third magic color. You can choose the magic color. So, yeah. And maybe I still have that road up somewhere, not… yeah. No, it's too much. So I had an internal boat with the riders who were riding it, and they chose… every rider chose 5 of their favorites of a… of a table of, like, 50 colors, and now… and of course, they chose, like, funky hot magenta… hot pink, they chose.

Frank: and stuff.

Michi Rossmeier: like the neon yellow, and I'm like, oh, please.

Frank: I hope.

Michi Rossmeier: That is not the final one, but I will publish a vote for the public in the next days, hopefully. that, we will vote on the last, color, and then… and then I will have full color straps as well, because for now, only the logo is available in a different color. But anyway, the color is not the magic thing, Joachim, that I was saying, like, the… the thing is really that you have so much contact, and you feel so… safe with those straps, and you have much more control over the… over the board. That's the key thing. Actually, somebody was asking me, I don't know, I… yeah, no, never mind, that was… I think it was something to do with the straps that I already answered now. Somebody sent a message. We're almost at the end of an hour. Anyone has questions about anything?

Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy: I put it in the, chat. Are you gonna do a Trictionary foiling app, or… Should we use the duotone one?

Michi Rossmeier: I will do an app. So, yeah, well, the JoTone app is really… it has become really, really good. I'm not in that team that does the app. I think they are seeing me as a competition a little bit. With the books and stuff that I do, but there will be a traditional foiling app, yes, and I'm working on it, so there will be also the book pages available in the app. There will be a video coaching in the app, so that you can basically upload your videos, and you get coaching from me. And, and then I will… it will… the thing is that, for example, in the… in YouTube and in the Joachim Academy, there's a lot of, short tutorials already, so what I will do is I will bring what I learned in all the camps and everything, what I write in the book, and do that as detailed, kind of you know, a Palau Focus or Palau Mastery class that I will put in the app, for example, for a Palau, or for a… even jibes or 360s or so, and I will really provide every step from the start to the… to the end move, because sometimes just seeing a 2-minute tutorial is not really… enough to… to get you through all the steps, so that's what I will do, yeah, and I will… I hope to finish that in… in… sometime in autumn. Along with the, with the book.

SBC Productions: Great.

Michi Rossmeier: But for sure, it's planned, yeah. It's a lot of work, the video stuff is almost more work than… books, for me, is pretty okay, because I… just give me the right photo, and I can talk for… for half an hour or something, and nowadays, I can even dictate, and it is almost, you know, I can… I don't have to write everything, even though I'm fast. Yeah, and, so, yeah, I can, I can really write books fast if I have the right photos, but… Yeah, it still takes its time. The most difficult thing is finding crash… crashes. The most typical crashes are the hardest to find when finishing a book. That's the… that's the… Difficult thing, yeah.

Frank: So, Michael, I haven't…

Michi Rossmeier: boiling it. Yep, tell me, Frank.

Frank: Michael, I have an interesting thought, or let's say, a vision, and I hope that this, maybe, you also find interesting. So the thing is, I mean, we all wait for your book, you know, we can't wait for it. let's, let's say I'm 50 plus as well, I, I'm not a crazy freestyler anymore, but I do a lot of, let's say, variation, trick variations, and I, I, let's say, they are complicated, and, My, my idea is that you also come up with a kind of community, where all your readers, can connect with each other and exchange, about the moves, and maybe also ask questions to you, basically to, to share The… the love for it, and… and the passion, and… and, get into a, into exchange, and talk about, and, yeah, basically. help each other and, get also support from you. So what I can say is there… there's Alan Cadiz, for example, yeah? I mean, you know him very, I think, and he has a Patreon page, so you can… you could have an additional online community where… where the readers, maybe they get free access, and the others Have to pay an additional little fee. To, participate in the whole thing, and… and you would be the host of the whole thing, and maybe your team, and… let's say if there's expert knowledge, you are the guy, but I find it difficult, if I see a sequence of pictures to, to get it go… to do it underwater, and I think there's… there's need to talk about within your, readers, or your, customer. Or, let's say, the community.

Michi Rossmeier: Thank you, yes, I mean, the community with the app, it should… should be something doable, right? There's now a lot of, I mean, that's why I kind of started with the, I was starting the… these Q&A calls to see what is coming out of it. It should be something that is recurring, you know, it should be something that is free, and that there's more people joining, and even now, we didn't even get to ask… to talk about any tricks or something like that, but it was a very nice exchange, was nice to hear, see you.

SBC Productions: D.

Michi Rossmeier: And, exchange these, thoughts about, the sport, and, and so on, so… I think it's a great idea, yeah, to open up additional meetings, maybe, and a platform for that. Yes, yes, 100%.

Frank: Yeah, I mean, you could integrate it into, you could come up with an online forum, where you could basically come up with categories of the different moves, so that people have a starting point, For 360s or whatever, and, start there and discuss and get help.

Michi Rossmeier: 100%, yeah, yeah, 100%. I mean, yeah, of course, I will, look into that. Thank you for the, for that idea. I know you have a lot of experience.

Frank: Yeah, I have always.

Michi Rossmeier: 10 years.

Frank: You know, I have a lot of ideas, but I would love to have that, because I don't see an online place where I can talk about moves. I mean, I have a lot of ideas for moves, or let's say. questions, how to make things, and, I don't get in touch with the right people. That's my problem.

Michi Rossmeier: Right, now you are in touch with the right people, and we will make sure that there's a platform to stay in touch.

Frank: Yeah, that is correct.

Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, I'm.

Frank: It's…

Michi Rossmeier: I will do my best to make something that is interesting and exciting for everyone to join. Really, that's the reason why I thought, okay. let's do something, you know, meet and see who wants to join, who is motivated and happy and, you know, interested in Wingfoiling, yeah. It's like… I thought about meetups, or whatever, like, kind of a monthly, or whatever, however many times, and yeah, we… of course, I will try to, organize something along those lines, yeah, yeah, and provide… a platform for… for these exchanges, which I also feel is very… would be very, very beneficial for everyone, yeah.

Frank: Definitely. Yeah. Yeah, we are… we are now just, hoping for the book to have in our hands.

Michi Rossmeier: I will… I will, go work on it, now.

Frank: Thanks, Michael.

Michi Rossmeier: Now, there's a lot of, a lot of content done already, for the book, and yeah, and I'll keep you updated. So I put a next, same Q&A, kind of, in one month, at the beginning of September. Then I should have quite a bit of feedback from the camps, which is very exciting, summer. maybe some of you go on summer holiday, summer vacation, and have something to report, and I hope until then, also, already, I will have some News on, well, the footstraps will be here, probably, the… the other camps are set up, and then I hope to be able to publish an app and a platform for like-minded people. It's a great idea, thank you so much.

Frank: Yup.

Michi Rossmeier: And, yeah. And yeah, Ben, thank you so much for joining. I think we have one hour… yes, we are exactly one hour. Wow. Thanks for joining in, and I hope this helped. If any one of you has questions, message me anytime.

SBC Productions: email.

Michi Rossmeier: You have my… You have my email, contact, WhatsApp, whatever, just message me, and any ideas are welcome, and I'm happy to… to help, and yeah, and connect.

Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy: Thanks so much.

SBC Productions: Right, thank you. Aloha.

Michi Rossmeier: Bye, thank you guys.

Marieke: Bye! Bye-bye.

Michi Rossmeier: Thank you, bye-bye! Thank you.

SBC Productions: Bye.

Frank: Chop.

Michi Rossmeier: If you guys wanna… don't wanna leave, I sh… I freak you out. Thank you. Thank you.

Gianni: Absolutely. Bye.

Michi Rossmeier: Bye, guys. Bye, Gianni, ciao, ciao. Joachim, ciao, Peter.

Gianni: Ta-ta. 