00:00:10  Renate Klauser-Braun: Alo?
00:00:12  Michi Rossmeier: Hello! Hello!
00:00:13  Renate Klauser-Braun: Hello, Christie! in English.
00:00:17  Michi Rossmeier: English, in English, when.
00:00:19  Renate Klauser-Braun: No problem. No problem.
00:00:21  Michi Rossmeier: over them.
00:00:21  Renate Klauser-Braun: Yep.
00:00:22  Michi Rossmeier: Hello, Carl! Hello, Reinhard and France! Already here. Can you hear me well?
00:00:33  Renate Klauser-Braun: Pretty good.
00:00:35  Michi Rossmeier: Wingfamily is also here, very good. Who is the Wing family? Which wing family? There's so many wing families now. Beta, hey!
00:00:49  Peter Vana: Yeah, well, sorry.
00:00:50  Michi Rossmeier: A common… slowly, slowly, everybody coming… Very good. record this meeting. I will send, I will send recordings, out. Everybody who participates will get a link. afterwards, and you can, and then you can, always come back to it. Okay? It's recorded, so I will record it. Hello.
00:01:16  Michael Marotta: Well, Mike, hey, Mike!
00:01:17  Michi Rossmeier: Oh, you found a way to change your name, or what? Yeah.
00:01:20  Michael Marotta: Yeah, same! Thank you.
00:01:24  Michi Rossmeier: your virtual name, or your Zoom name. I also…
00:01:27  Michael Marotta: Yeah, brother.
00:01:27  Michi Rossmeier: I was doing that, I remember. Yeah.
00:01:30  Michael Marotta: I have to log in differently. Nice to see you. Thank you for hosting this meeting again. Thank you.
00:01:35  Michi Rossmeier: Thank you. Great to see you again. Let's wait a few moments for everyone to come in. Who is, EMET and Dev? Are you Evgeny, or how do you say their name?
00:01:46  ymezentsev: Yevgeny, yeah, that's right.
00:01:48  Michi Rossmeier: Jenny, you pronounced name. You signed up before, and you said…
00:01:51  ymezentsev: Yeah, yeah. Good questions. We used to chat, like, 10 years ago, when I still used to windsurf, you know? Yeah, like, in 2018, when I went to Brazil, we had a very long discussion, like, what can I do there in a month, or three months, or whatever. But that's in the past now. Now it's Wayne.
00:02:12  Michi Rossmeier: Now, it's Wing, and there's even more to be done in a few months, right? Or even days.
00:02:17  ymezentsev: Well, the thing is, you know, like, the learning curve is much… it's way faster than. Like, there's no comparison, right? But… But I'm here in Coralejo, like, your last Q&A was gonna be… was on the day that I flew here, so it's been a month, and I'm about to fly, like, in two days, home. But it's been, like, the worst trip of my life. Like, there's been no wind, and I've learned nothing, you know? It's like, it's… I've had better windsurfing trips because, I don't know, there's just, like. Yeah. They blame the Super El Nino, but anyway, the older I get, the less patient I am.
00:03:00  Michi Rossmeier: Well, yeah, we, we, very nice, Yes, it's not very nice that you have a bad trip, but yes, we are all in the same boat, I feel. It's like…
00:03:14  ymezentsev: Fight.
00:03:14  Michi Rossmeier: Many times.
00:03:16  ymezentsev: Is peripheral so affected?
00:03:19  Michi Rossmeier: I am, for those of you who don't know, I, in summer, in July and August, I usually travel to Lake Garda in Italy, and I spend the summer there with the family, and I do a lot of coaching there at Duoton Pro Center in Torbole. And we, and yeah, and I have some camps there, and coachings, and yeah, and I enjoy riding in summer at Lake Garda a lot. And we had an amazing summer, I have to say, even… more amazing than other years, because it was… because there, the whole wind is usually thermal, basic… well, it's only thermal. And… and for that, that all summer was really hot. We had wind still every day, and it's pretty amazing.
00:04:07  ymezentsev: Okay.
00:04:07  Michi Rossmeier: I heard, though, for Tarifa, it was not very, very windy for… compared to other years, but I will… I guess, when I go there, I will travel there on Friday. for 3 days, and then I will be there again, and I will… I guess I will hear a lot, how the summer was, when I will be back in Tarifa, and but I imagine, yeah, when you are… You are in Coralejo, you've been there.
00:04:36  ymezentsev: I've been told that the wind kind of just switched off in July. And July, August… I mean, it's… it… there is some, but it's… it's like… like, in the bay, there is… it's just… it's slim pickings, right? And…
00:04:49  Michi Rossmeier: And do you… did you travel to, to the South? Do you just try to…
00:04:55  ymezentsev: Only in the last couple of days, I've actually started going to, like, Port Lajos… yeah, it's, it's not, it's only, like, 30, 40Ks, it's not, it's not like I'm… I haven't gone to,
00:05:09  Michi Rossmeier: Sotavento.
00:05:11  ymezentsev: No. I always thought, look, it's so gusty there, offshore, like, what's the point? I'm like, okay, alright, so… Anyway, it hasn't… it hasn't, thing is, like, I was in Maui last year in August. Not August, September, practically. And even in September, it was just so windy, like, there was no… you know, you're asking for a rest day, you know? So, So, you know, Maui's actually supposed to be getting windier and windier from the people living there. So there's less well, but more wind, but… But I saw that Fuerta Ventura is just as reliable, but it's not. So…
00:05:50  Michi Rossmeier: Well, there's also, I mean, always there are these years, and I remember… going to Greece, and peop… well, actually, I remember traveling, and people told me… almost every place I went, and there was no wind, kind of, people told me, wow, wow, we… 30 years, we didn't have such a bad season. It was, normally it's always windy. And, you know, you always hear that when.
00:06:17  ymezentsev: I always hear that. Sometimes. Everywhere I go, even the places where it's pretty good, I go, oh, it's pretty good. Oh, we've never had 3 days in a row without wind, like, it's terrible.
00:06:24  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, but it happens, it happens, it can happen, yeah. But then, I hope you will soon have, some place where you…
00:06:33  ymezentsev: Well, I, you know, I'm going back to Australia, so, you know, it's gonna be summer, so I hope to recoup, you know, what I've lost here. So, yeah, it's, I'm trying to kind of, like, make more optimal use of my time on the water, you know, not just, like, mowing the lawn and stuff, so yeah, that's… that's the goal.
00:06:58  Michi Rossmeier: Of course, yeah. But it's funny, Frank, hello, Frank, you're typing in the air, it's so funny to see that. You're muted. Very good. So, welcome, everyone. So we had a small chat now, I guess, everyone joined, who wants to join? Welcome, everyone, to this second Q&A that, I am doing, and, it's great. So, I mean, I… I want to do that to, you know, bring a little bit of a community together, talk a bit, About wingfoiling, or other sports, water sports, spots, or whatever questions there are. To, you know, have a little discussion about it. I want to share my knowledge, my experience a little bit, and also, of course, you guys are invited to share yours. I… Well, if you, if anyone wants to raise a question, would be good. If you put the hand up, like the, the virtual hand or the, or the hand like this, and then unmute so that we don't all talk together in one… chaos. And, and I got some questions already. From the sign-ups, so I can, I can, talk through those, and, anyone else, feel free to, well, post the questions in the chat, or just raise your hand, and then we, and then, yeah, ask your question, and, one after the other. We, let's, go through it, and then we… We can have a little discussion, and everyone is welcome to share their Things, yeah, iPhone di Alexander, let me know what you… unmute and, let me know what your question is.
00:08:53  iPhone di Alexander: Yeah, because I…
00:08:55  Michi Rossmeier: You're welcome.
00:08:55  iPhone di Alexander: Welcome, everybody! I am, Lessandro, and I'm calling from Switzerland, so from a nice lake, on the mountains. Maybe I can show you. It's like that.
00:09:10  Michi Rossmeier: Oh, literally, at the lake, perfect.
00:09:12  iPhone di Alexander: Yeah, I, I finished… I finished the session now. So, yeah, I heard the other, the other, guy was speaking about no wind condition. And, this year, I discovered one thing that maybe you know better than me, but, I tried different ways to approach the light wind. The one, the first one was, to, to take a big wing, 7, quadrat meter. But, it doesn't, work at, so, so it didn't work so well, because it was not, maneuverable. But, with, a pump foil, set, set, so with, a big, aspect ratio and, A big soil now, you know, for pumping. I… I could fly also without wind, and I used a 5 or 4.5 quadrat meter wing. going more… better than the others, because… because I… I needed ju… just, like, a gust to… to jump on, and I could pump… Without wind, yeah. Yeah, yeah, that was, interesting this year.
00:10:44  Michi Rossmeier: So you're talking about very, very, very light wind, like 6 knots, 8 knots, or something?
00:10:49  iPhone di Alexander: Yeah, yeah. Three knots. Three.
00:10:52  Michi Rossmeier: 3 notes.
00:10:53  iPhone di Alexander: Yeah.
00:10:53  Michi Rossmeier: That's… some people don't even call that wind, yes.
00:10:56  iPhone di Alexander: Yeah, yeah, because you are lucky, because you…
00:11:00  Michi Rossmeier: Yes. Yeah, I know, I know.
00:11:01  iPhone di Alexander: and so on, but, there are a lot of people that, For one hour wind, they wait two weeks. Of course.
00:11:11  Michi Rossmeier: Of course, I know, I know, I know. I mean, on the lakes, that happens, and many times when I'm, for example, at Lake Garda, and the conditions are like what you are describing, maybe not 3 knots, but 5, 6 knots or something, then I am actually also… I'm taking… I'm, like, thinking, what can I do? How can I get this going, you know? And I'm kind of like you. that I… I want to know if it's possible, because sometimes you just can't, but… Yeah. Yeah, it's right. I mean, I remember also being, where was that? In Cyprus, and there was almost no wind, but there was one person who had the pump foil and the 6-meter wing, and he was… walking speed, I mean, that was, like, a few years ago, so the pump foils were not that fast. But, of course, they were high aspect, they were wide, and, you know, very pumpable, so he was walking speed, but he was riding all day long. And, of course, it's better than not foiling, right? Not riding, or sitting on the beach. If you are there for winging, then why not, yeah. And the thing that you describe. With the… it's very interesting, the 6 meter… Versus… or 7, you said 7 meters.
00:12:20  iPhone di Alexander: 7, 7, yeah.
00:12:21  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, versus 5 or 4 meters with a bigger… with a pumpable foil.
00:12:26  iPhone di Alexander: Yeah.
00:12:26  Michi Rossmeier: I have the same experience. You can pump the 5 or 4 much better to get going, because the 7… it needs to… it needs too much time to breathe, right? And many times you just fall to your back, because it… it over… you overtake the wing, right?
00:12:40  iPhone di Alexander: Yeah, when you make a jibe, it, it is, difficult to, to maintain, actually the maneuvability, and you have a long strut, so the strut catch the water, the tip catch the water, you miss, speed. And, yeah, actually, it's the technique, more technique of pumping with a little… Wing, you can pump faster. With a big one, you, you pump, a bit slower, so it's, It's more power, of course, but less maneuverability, and Yeah, I think the good way is 5 or 6 maximum. 7 and 8 are… Today, not anymore, actual, so… Actual, yeah.
00:13:36  Michi Rossmeier: Not really necessary. Yeah, not really necessary.
00:13:39  iPhone di Alexander: But I am a 70 kilo, so I am a light… light rider, so maybe a big one, have another opinion, I don't know.
00:13:50  ymezentsev: What size board do you use?
00:13:53  iPhone di Alexander: At the moment, I use 76… Oops. Please watch.
00:13:59  ymezentsev: Okay.
00:13:59  iPhone di Alexander: Yeah, it's, like, not so… not so wide, so it's, like, 50 centimeter wide. And, and yes, and, it's, Kind of a compact and mid-length, it's a, it's, like, in between a mid-length and a compact. So it's an interesting concept from, from Indiana.
00:14:26  Peter Vana: How much weight do you have?
00:14:28  iPhone di Alexander: It's like, I think, with the, with this third one,
00:14:34  Peter Vana: No, no, you, you're, wait.
00:14:36  iPhone di Alexander: I, I am about 70. 70 kilos.
00:14:40  Peter Vana: Okay.
00:14:41  iPhone di Alexander: Yeah…
00:14:42  Peter Vana: Because I have 50 kilomore. They have to use an 8 square meter wing, and have also a board with 150 liters, so it's depending, first of all, the personal weight, and also the wind at your local spot, or whatever, yeah, for sure. the pump, the foil, makes a big difference, because, yeah, I have also some… big voice, and some with high spectrum, and some with low. There's a big difference between them. But if you use an 8 square meter wing, yeah, it's… as you mentioned, or Michael mentioned, it's not that pumpable, like a 6.5. wing, but if you walk through the different casts consistent, 8 square meter wing is much better than the 6.5, because then you're standing, because you can't go through the… The costs, if they are in a pick ratio.
00:15:49  ymezentsev: I don't have one myself, but a lot of people are now using, longer boards. Instead of the old, squares, like… well, I have a 50L board right now, which is killing me here, but Back home, and actually here as well, a lot of people are using mid-length boards, and, like, downwind boards to get… to get initial glide first.
00:16:15  Michi Rossmeier: There's also, one thing, of course, Peter, I mean, you can also… I mean, you are very tall, also, you have to say. See that? I mean, I know you, you're very.
00:16:26  Peter Vana: To meet there.
00:16:28  Michi Rossmeier: Yes, so you can handle, 8-meter wing much easier than, one of… like, I'm 180, so if I go with the 8 meter, I have to fly it so high, but… so, I mean, of course, there is, the conditions and the… The use case for 8, or whatever, 9, or 6 meters, 7 meters, I think, sure, of course, you need it, or you don't fly. I think also, what I found, especially with, weight very heavy and very lightweights, I think the… The relation between the foil size, wing size, and everything. to the weight. It is not very linear, so it's like, you need to go a lot bigger to keep going and so on. Same thing with the kids. They can go on tiny Pioneer thing, then they would Like, if it was linear, you know, like…
00:17:24  Peter Vana: You can't just…
00:17:25  Michi Rossmeier: If they have half the weight.
00:17:27  Peter Vana: Huh.
00:17:28  Michi Rossmeier: half the size you need, or for you, double the weight or something.
00:17:32  Peter Vana: Sure, yeah. I always compare it for the other guys which are winging, if they… pump up their wings, I always look how… what is the size, and often they use 6 or 6.5, and if I then pump up my 8, they always look to me and say, really? Really?
00:17:54  Michi Rossmeier: I was scared to not fly, right? But it's like that, yes.
00:17:57  Peter Vana: Yeah, no, they fly, yeah, for sure, they fly with the 6.5, but in the Gaston, and this is on, like, nice, nice little… the big case, that you have not really a constant wind, you have a, like I would say, a standard, wind shield, or wind field, where you have a nearly constant, but then you have gusts, and the gusts can be very tightened of the constant, level, but Yeah, if you have such big difference from the gas to the constant, you then can fly with the 6.5 only in the gas, but if then there comes a big… not the gust, again, then you're standing, and I will fly with the 8-point, because it's so big that… yeah.
00:18:47  iPhone di Alexander: Yeah, you are behind the…
00:18:49  Michi Rossmeier: Oh, sorry, yeah.
00:18:50  iPhone di Alexander: You're right to say about this, not proportional low between, the weight of the rider and the wing and the foil, because you… you have the… the lift is, so the power is the… is the, qua… so, velocity of wind, qua squared, C, what, At the two-part answer, so… It's like, the law is, is not linear, so…
00:19:25  Michi Rossmeier: Meh.
00:19:25  iPhone di Alexander: Probably due to that.
00:19:27  Peter Vana: Yeah, and it depends on the spot, too, because if you have a spot which similar constant wind and the gusts are similar depending on the constant. level between 5% or 10%, it's different than if you have a spot where you have a constant wind, but then you have gusts up to 20%, and then there's no wind, because this can happen also on Lake Noisel, that you have a constant wind, you get a gust, and then 20 meters past, and then you have similar no wind.
00:20:00  iPhone di Alexander: Exactly, exactly. That's the advantage of the pump foil setup, because if the wind is disappearing.
00:20:09  Peter Vana: Yeah.
00:20:09  iPhone di Alexander: You pump… like, 30 seconds, and then it's coming another gust, and you catch the gust again, so you… you have this, capacity of, going, also with not constant wind. And, last thing, so then… then I stop, and it's, in the lake. you have no wave. That's also an interesting aspect, because with no wave, you can go with less wind, because you can… you can pump it better. With not so, so much wave. With a bit of wave, like a little one, you can catch it like a ramp. But with, with, big waves, I don't think it's more efficient than this condition.
00:21:04  Michi Rossmeier: Very…
00:21:05  ymezentsev: Yay.
00:21:06  Michi Rossmeier: Yes, Carl is asking, if there's any… no, yeah, Carl is asking if there's any manufacturer doing bigger than Ventus 8. Are you using bigger than Ventus 8, Peter?
00:21:20  Peter Vana: No, no, at the moment, I looked to F1, which has a 9 square meter Wink, but…
00:21:26  iPhone di Alexander: I want…
00:21:27  Peter Vana: avoid it because somebody has a 9 square meters, an old one from F1, and he's… it's similar to mine, I have bought a wing from Germany, it's Copper. Maybe, maybe somebody knows, which doesn't factor anymore the 8 square meter wing, but this is… Amazing.
00:21:48  Michi Rossmeier: Oh, rating.
00:21:49  Peter Vana: I didn't realize I compared it to the Ventys, which are also… also, I can rent at the local station, but it's the old Ventys, maybe it's… it's… maybe due to this difference, the copper is much more handleable and powerful than this one is, but this is 4 years old, and mine is 2 years old, so… You can't really compare it in the same way.
00:22:18  Michi Rossmeier: The, the, the thing is, their wings? Yeah, sorry, Carl, yeah.
00:22:22  Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy - Canada: On the Ventus, Andy Brant says, if you find one that pumps up to 7, use it, or if you have a Ventus that only pumps up to 5, pump it to 7 anyway, and it makes a big difference.
00:22:35  Peter Vana: I will.
00:22:35  Michi Rossmeier: I was just going to say, a big, big difference, is the stiffness of the recent years of wings, so you can… I think you can… Right, Pete, especially for, guys heavy, 100 kilos or something, or more, or around that, I think it's very important to have the wing as stiff as possible, like you say, Carl, or like Andy said, yeah. I mean, if you pump and it's going… boom, boom, then you lose so much of the efficiency, you can… you can just ride a 6th and better, that is very stiff also, you know? I guess that makes a big difference. The new.
00:23:13  Peter Vana: Yeah, for sure.
00:23:13  Michi Rossmeier: Wings that you can pump more, right? Yeah. I mean, it's easy for me, because I'm the average riderweight, I think. I'm, like, 72 kilos, and I rarely have to use anything bigger than 4 or 4'5. And even… even if I wanted to go in, like, 6 knots or something, I would probably take, if I could choose, I would take a 5. And… or 4 or 5, maybe even? depends how much I want to keep pumping, but, and then some high aspects, like the Glide, or, 1100, and, and, and the mid-length board, like the… I don't know, 80L or 70L SkyBrit, and that would be… I would be going… I tried that last year, and I was… it's, like, incredible how easy that keeps going. So, a mid-length board. I think helps a lot also to get the speed, to get going, and keep the speed. Yeah, but of course, you, Peter, have this thing, of course, 100… more than 100 kilos, you need the volume in the board. I saw that when you were in Tarifa in the beginning. Those boards are just not… it's really hard to get a board that is big enough, because, like I said. like, Alexander, confirmed that the relation is not, it's not linear, so you would need a… yeah, yeah. But I'm glad you, you are writing, and… and these are challenges that are, yeah, they are…
00:24:43  Peter Vana: Yeah, I'm right now foiling. I'm not foiling, I have bought at the Indiana… I always looked at it on, and I… tried to get used to it on it, but it was unimpossible here in Austria. Maybe it would be better to take it from the river back home, because they are nearly to the new price, and that was unbelievable, and the Indiana was then… In Swiss, with the transfer. the same, like, the half price of a dude on another hand, so…
00:25:21  Michi Rossmeier: I mean, for you, Wade, it could even make sense to, at some point, to get some custom board, like a custom mid-length that is really big or something, to get.
00:25:29  Peter Vana: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
00:25:30  Michi Rossmeier: You know? But, yeah, other than that, we have our… we have the tools that are good for the market, the rest is very…
00:25:37  Peter Vana: For sure, now that Duiton has good boards, and I looked in the past to Armstrong, where they have mid-length board in 115 and 180, but with 2,000 euro, I won't… I will not buy it.
00:25:54  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, I understand. Frank, what do you wanna say? Alexander, you too. Sorry, but Frank, yeah, let me know, you didn't speak yet.
00:26:02  Frank: Yes, thanks, Michael, for organizing this second time, so I'm really glad, you're doing it again. Yeah, I, I have a question to you, because a friend of mine, I invited him to join, but unfortunately he didn't show up. We were discussing heavily about mast positioning, and I wanted to hear your guys' thoughts about it. So, we are riding the exact same kit, right? Same board, same foil set. I'm… since day one, I'm positioning my mast under my footstrap. I started Foiling with footstraps from day one on, right? So my position is directly under the strap, so my… from my thought is, like, you put the pressure directly on top of the foil, on top of where you foot is precision. My buddy now rides, as I said, same setup, but around, ladies, let's say, 8 to 10 centimeters more forward. We are the same weight, so same diff… same setup. But totally different feeling. We… we switched the kit two weeks ago, and… and then I was wondering why the hell do I have so much front foot pressure, and the board is, of course. rocketing into the air, because we are totally different, but how can this work? I mean, I don't get it. What's your opinion about that?
00:27:33  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, it depends… well, 8 to 10 centimeters is a big…
00:27:38  Frank: Yes, I know.
00:27:39  Michi Rossmeier: Big, big, big difference, right? Normally, yes, so when you're riding, do you have back foot pressure, or do you have… Yes. Okay.
00:27:47  Frank: wood.
00:27:48  Michi Rossmeier: And so… So, in general, what I suggest, and what I also wrote in the book, is for a standard setup to have 60% front and 40% back, so a little bit more front foot pressure. And it was very interesting when I talked to the guys, because I thought, okay, I found out it's easier to ride like that.
00:28:11  Frank: Like,
00:28:12  Michi Rossmeier: I… now I… and I had it in the… in the last camps and the last coachings, then… then I see someone with, some equipment that I don't even know sometimes, and I… And I see that the board is going like… like, like this, you know, every now and then. He has to do it like this. Like, he has to… it goes down, up, down, up, and it goes… it's always a little bit like… like this. It goes down, and he has to pull it up, like this. And… and, that is when you have too much… when you ride with back foot pressure. If it's too much, then you… then you're standing like a… like a windsurfer when starting to plane, with the back foot bent and the front foot extended. And Jerome from Duoton, he explained it that way, that it's easier to balance on the foil, it's easier to keep stability if you're… I think it was, like, if your center of gravity is closer to the center of… lift of the foil, which is forward, you know? So… when you are back, your… your… your… the center of lift of the foil is… is further away from your center of gravity, and that… that makes the… it makes it more sensitive, apparently. If I… I don't know if I explained that right, it was… Yeah, but I think so, I mean, and… You know, so that's how he explained it, with a lever, with a lever, with Madame Heber. So that when you are more back foot pressure, you see people going, the foil is always more like that. And if you're riding like that. you… you may… it also depends what I think, it depends a lot on the foil type that you're writing, or on the concept of the brand that is doing the foils, because I remember writing on Saab foils, I was writing totally different… in the beginning, I was writing Saab, and then… it was totally different to Step 2 Duaton, which is… which is much more, let's say… He has a much more constant, much more, calm, center of lift, then the sub was more, like, balancing like this, and then you could also move it more back, and still you were balancing like this, so it can be that you are riding north foils, I think I see that in the… Yeah, yeah, yeah.
00:30:25  Frank: Yeah, both knows, but it's just so… I can't believe that he is able to ride that kit, because I tried it, and it was… not impossible for me to write, and I think it's just… is it a, like, say, a preference more kind of thing, or…
00:30:44  Michi Rossmeier: I don't know. So, you know, you… if you try, because it's cool that you tried. So, and it's… the thing is, 8… 8 to 10 centimeters is huge. It's like the whole box, almost. It's like half the box or more. You know? Like, it's that much, that normally you never change a foil more than one or two centimeters when you do adjustments. So, but it's fine, it's fine. But, so, it might be that it was just way too out of your comfort zone… no, comfort zone, of your familiar feeling, so that you… I mean, you're riding probably a lot, you're riding well, and you're, you know, you're used to it, to that gear specifically, so maybe it makes sense for you to try move it step by step. Like, every session, 1 or 2 centimeters forward, and try to get front foot pressure into it, and try to see, really. If you get more stability into it, and if you get more height when you're jumping, because you're jumping, right? Or no, you're not into jumping.
00:31:41  Frank: I do, but I think what you described, he should do, not me, because if I… if I look at my riding style, this is… I… I got back to my position where I feel confident now, and I don't… I will definitely not change that. It's more… for me to understand how can two people with the same kit, the same foil set, have different… such a different setup, and both feel comfortable, because he said, no, I don't want to go backwards, I want to keep that position, I feel good. And if you see him riding, he rides really good, and… Full under control, but it's… it seems like he has front foot pressure that, that he has to, apply all the time, and I back foot pressure, but for me, it's… it's… it feels natural. I don't… so it's… it's totally crazy, but it is happening, so I wanted to have your thoughts on it. Yeah, so that's basically it, Rod.
00:32:37  Michi Rossmeier: Maybe, you know, I mean… if maybe he is a bit too far forward and you are too much back. I would say, if you go for freestyle, if you look at the guys who are there, how they are tuning the gear in the World Cup. They are riding crazy front foot pressure, because they go as fast as they can, and you see them on the front foot, and they can just… the board sometimes is just shaking, like, before exploding, and then they let this… front foot pressure explode upwards. The thing, when you have a lot of back foot pressure, and I don't know, I didn't see you right, but… What I found, and I don't know the North gear well, I really didn't write any of those foils or boards or wings, but what I… usually, what you could look for is, when you're jumping. Do you sometimes have too much, Rakutenlage? That you lean too much in the back? I do. Because, you know, if you're riding, if you're riding, and you're on the… you have to stand on the back of the foil. of the board, and you are one to jump, you have to press so much in the back that you have to lean back to get up. Yeah. But if you're on the front foot, and you're just holding it down, and then you lean it… break it down, and then you just get a little bit back to the… basically to the center of lift of the… of the foil. and it lets it explode upwards, then you… usually you jump, the board really can push you up into the air, and that's the theory that I have for… for tuning the gear for freestyle, because when you want to jump. You want to be over the board, and really press into it, and if it jumps you up like a trampoline is jumping you up. So, you know, because you need to be pressing into it, and it needs to press you up. And if you do a lot of lean back, too much back, Rakutenlage, jumping, you know, on your back. I had this two weeks ago or so. We changed the setup, and suddenly it was possible for… for the guy to jump, more straight up and not lose the whole… like, actually, he had the board flying away. All the time. And that's the thing, you know, you can always try…
00:34:47  Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy - Canada: Clear, did you move it forward or backwards for that guy to jump better? Forward. Forward.
00:34:53  Michi Rossmeier: foot pressure, yeah. You move the foil forward as long, as much. Basically, the more freestyle, the higher you want to jump, the more forward, until, of course, a certain point where you Where you have this problem of you want to go fast, but it just pushes you out, and that's too much, but… You want to be going crazy fast, bring the wing down more in front of you, and more, more, more faster, faster, and that's like a circle, you know? You press into the front foot, gives you more speed, more wind into the wing, more power, more speed, bam, bam, bam, and then at some point, you can find that chop and really jump. That's my feeling?
00:35:30  Frank: But to be honest, I'm mid-50s, right? So for my age.
00:35:34  Michi Rossmeier: In the best age.
00:35:35  Frank: The best stage, I think I… I have… I have full control over my kit. I do my… my maximum I'm measuring with the Surfer app is 5… 5 meter 50 on… on a… on a lake, so… I don't want to go higher than that. It's not my goal, it's just to feel… to have a good feeling when I jump, and I do have that. Expect that sometimes, as you said, I'm… I'm leading it too much backward, but I think that is… has a different, reason but the foil. So, for me, I think I'm… I'm fine. He's fine. But still, we have this huge difference, and yeah. as you described it, I want to… I will forward him the transcript of this meeting, and he should read it. Maybe he can learn something out of it. I learned something, but I'm still not, won't, push it further forward. And on the box, by the way, last sentence, is that the rider's weight is put on the box, so you have for orientation, and I'm light, I'm 68 kilogram, and I'm in the right range, I think. He's in the wrong range, according to the specification of north. Right.
00:36:47  Peter Vana: Mmm.
00:36:47  Michi Rossmeier: They put the… but how do they put the weight on the box of the board when using…
00:36:52  Frank: I would say LiDAR riders, LiDAR riders to the back, heavier riders to the front, that is basically what is printed on the box. But yeah, and I am according to that, and my body is not according to that recommendation, so…
00:37:08  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, I would also not agree with what is written there. Same as I wouldn't agree with what is written on the duotone boards, which is… Look, Alexander, he's showing the box. foils, it's written, more lift in the front and less lift in the back, which is also not really correct, because we discover… I mean, it's not that you get more lift, the foil always does the same lift. It's more front foot pressure, more back foot pressure. If you put it to the back, it's more back foot pressure. If you put it to the front. is more front foot pressure. So I don't know. Of course, I mean, everybody can ride how they want, and there's different… there's strange setups, of course, I guess also in the pros, there was always, strange setups with, freestyle windsurfers, and sure, we can find them in the freestyle Wingfoilers or so, so it's… it doesn't mean that you… I don't know, I don't want to convince you to do it. But maybe you can find out, like. it's also for pumping. If you pump, and you have to be on the back foot, you know, you get, you need to push it up, and you're on the back foot. And while… when it pull… it pushes you up, and you can push it down. you, you might have an advantage of being… staying over the board more, but you can adjust to anything, so you're riding like this for years, so it's also good to know. I mean, that's good.
00:38:28  iPhone di Alexander: Maybe…
00:38:28  Michi Rossmeier: Evgeny, what… sorry, who wants to say something?
00:38:32  iPhone di Alexander: Sorry, Ali, so, I… no, maybe it's interesting, these things of the mass position and so on. Personally, I use your rule that I put that, the lift on, on my, center of gravity. It's, maybe your difference, the, the guy that spoke before. It's like in skiing, you know, you know. Somebody ski with, skis with, the weight, back, and somebody, ski with the weight, forward. And… but every… both can ski, you know? So, both those, but the weight distribution is totally different. And if you have a totally different weight distribution, the mass position is different. So, in my opinion, it's, like, only a question of weight distribution.
00:39:37  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, well, like I said, I mean, it's not… not… there's not…
00:39:40  Peter Vana: Yeah.
00:39:40  Michi Rossmeier: I think I wrote that also in the book, that, you know, it's not that there's one right way to do it, and that's… and you can't… I mean, there are some people who have problems with something, and then if you say, okay, move it forward, for example, they get more stability. or not, it depends, you know. Some people need to adjust a few days until they feel that stability, and it's beneficial in some cases, some… you know,
00:40:05  iPhone di Alexander: If you, if you, if you think, about one thing, if you… took your body. Divide your body in a half.
00:40:15  Michi Rossmeier: Oh, I don't want to do that.
00:40:16  Frank: Yeah.
00:40:19  iPhone di Alexander: If you shift your half, like, 8, centimeters forward, your, center of gravity is 4cm forward. So, it's like, It depends, really, which part of your body are you shifting forward and backward. Like, also a leg, more forward. It's, like, maybe 1… 1… 0.25… Of your weight, and so you shift maybe something of your center of gravity forward. It's like a leg and a harm? Arm? It's like…
00:41:00  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah. It's very…
00:41:02  iPhone di Alexander: your weight. It's like…
00:41:03  Michi Rossmeier: That's very funny, I don't want to move my body parts around.
00:41:06  iPhone di Alexander: No.
00:41:07  Michi Rossmeier: But, but, one, one just…
00:41:10  Frank: One thought from my side, what comes to my mind now. Can it also be that it depends on… because this keying approach, I find a good example, but could it also be, like, you are either regular or goofy? Because I'm a regular guy. So, I have, I have my, my, let's say, yeah, my preferred… that I have since my birth, my kind of weight feeling is on, on the… on… on the, on that side. Could all.
00:41:40  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, but it would go opposite directions then. In your natural stance, you would feel that, right? It is the same for a goofy rider to ride his way, and for the other one this way, you know?
00:41:50  Frank: That is one thought, and the other thought was, like, when I'm balancing on the balance board, like, with a roll, a former roll underneath, right? Then I also have… and the question is also, do I feel more comfortable balancing on… on one or the other food? And that is also maybe causing this kind of balancing on the… on the foil, like, in my right position right now. I don't know, it's complicated, it's really something that can't really get into my head.
00:42:17  Peter Vana: I think it's a personal preference, because I want to compare to the ski, because I learned skiing with 8 of 10, and my wife started skiing with 30. She… she never, or she always had the problem to go fast skiing, yeah? And fast skiing was, for me, no issue. Why don't you ride faster? Because if you get older, you have other feelings than if you have trained something since you were young. Yeah, and the same is for me, like I do now, the wind foiling. For me, it's quite complicated to get in a good wind foiling session, because I'm nearly 60 now, and yeah, for me, it's very hard to get some improvements very fast. Because if I look to other people, which are young, they try, they fall, yeah, maybe also depending on the weight, yeah. Because… but they get much higher, steps forward than me, yeah? But it… I think it's also depending how is your mindset, and what you want to try, and do you have a good feeling with those setups? If you have a good feeling, you never change a running system, yeah. Usually.
00:43:39  Michi Rossmeier: Yes, I think for Frank, it's more of… you could experiment with it, and like, what I always do when I test something new. is, like, if I get a new board, or a new foil, or something, then I did that in windsurfing, I do it now in winging. I go and I, do the tricks, or the moves that I know perfectly, that I like, I… I mean, I do a 360, or I do… now it's a Palau, or whatever, and I do exactly that, and I just… feel how different it feels, how different the takeoff feels, and how different the landing feels, and how the approach feels, and everything. And I go fast, I go upwind, I go downwind, I do exactly the same thing, and then I try the other one. So, Frank, you, if you can, the next, I don't know, in the next month, until the next Q&A, it would be very interesting if you give it one session, and you go move it, like, maybe halfway forward, and see, for a session, try exactly the moves that you do best. And then see if there's a difference, because actually, it must be, for example, in a 360, probably you jump up more straight, and you come down without… with less forwards momentum, and can be easier to land, for example. Maybe. And maybe you are just used to it so much that you can just… that you compensate everything with this and that, and it's, like Peter said, it's a lot of personal preference, but what I saw with most, like, World Cup riders, how they set up their gear, they put it even more forward than, you know. what… I mean, they put it all the way forward, and the very interesting thing is, and it is like in windsurfing with the masked foot position on a board. it's not really depending on the weight of the rider, what I say, what I think, it's depending on the foil, of course, footstrap position, but not really much on the weight, I think. I mean, of course, if you… Of course, a little bit on the weight, and maybe you can go much… I mean, faster if you go more downwinders and stuff, or you want to go faster. You have to put it back, the foil, probably, so otherwise you lose control, but… I would always, for… like, I would say, just test it with the stuff that you can do the best, that you feel the best, and feel the most comfortable, and then you see the difference, maybe. Maybe you can, report something very interesting. In the… in the next one. There's, Reinhard. Is Reinhard the Reinhard that I… that was in my Palau class? Let me know, Reinhard. You are asking, would you put a few pumps before the final release of a jump? No. The best for jumping is usually going very fast, I mean, in control, going fast, for example, across the wind. Then you look a little bit to the left and upwind to find a chop, if there is any chop, but look for a place that you can focus on. go a little bit down into the… I mean, go carve upwind, go a little bit down, and then you really push up and try to jump out of that chop with the foil. And that's usually the best to… to have a good takeoff. If you do pop pumps, well, you can get pumps to get more speed, but not pump, pump, pump, jump. That's usually more distracting your… your takeoff, because you… with the foil, we are so… we are not… You know, we don't need to make a wave or something, we have the wave, and we have the foil jumping us, so we don't… Really need that. Then, Yevgeny, you wanted to say… ask you something. Thank you.
00:47:12  ymezentsev: Actually, this is, with regards to, sides. The pros actually just jump on one side, because that's what I've been told, like, they all send it the biggest one, just… I just don't remember that being the case in windsurfing, like, you know.
00:47:30  Michi Rossmeier: It wa- it is, also, it is, it is.
00:47:32  ymezentsev: It is.
00:47:33  Michi Rossmeier: Well, you have your preferred direction.
00:47:36  ymezentsev: Yeah, because…
00:47:36  Michi Rossmeier: your rotation… it's more the rotation in windsurfing, I feel, because here we have Goofy and regular being much more… it's… I feel always the foil is an amplifier for this, you know? For this one-sidedness.
00:47:49  ymezentsev: Okay. I think so. Okay, because… so I shouldn't feel bad that, you know…
00:47:53  Michi Rossmeier: No.
00:47:53  ymezentsev: I can hardly jump on the… on my bats, on the goofy side, you know, because…
00:47:58  Michi Rossmeier: Same thing here.
00:47:59  ymezentsev: All right, okay, good. And actually, the other thing is footstraps, right? Because I see on Instagram, the young kids, you know, they got their… they got these really wide, like, footstraps like this, and just their toes sticking out. Is that… is that, like, from kitesurfing or something? Is that…
00:48:18  Michi Rossmeier: I don't know which young guys you see, I generally see the guys pretty far in, but I also am a lot with the guys that have my footstraps, and there, you just want to go in all the way, really far… And they should be the, kind of, maybe not, like, horseshoe, like this, but really all the way around your… so, like, really covering your foot completely.
00:48:43  ymezentsev: After the… after the uncle, right?
00:48:45  Michi Rossmeier: Up to the ankle, not too big, of course, that you… you don't go… want to go through, like Ricardo Campbello in the past, he was like…
00:48:51  ymezentsev: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
00:48:52  Michi Rossmeier: It was caught once inside. But, what you want to do is… what I tend to do is I'm… you know, I have that in the book, so what I do, and it's funny that my son was riding next to me yesterday, and I was like. He said, puppy, look. And he jumps, takes the back foot out, and the board is wobbling around, and wobbling around. But then, he says, like, look, and I'm like, don't do that, it's dangerous. And then he was like, no, no, look, it's easy, because he has the trickinary footstraps, and what I do also to test, I go in, and then on the beach, when there's no foil on it, and I just go into the footstrap like I would go, and I just lift the board. And if you can lift that board… Then you have enough power and enough strength.
00:49:37  ymezentsev: Yeah, yeah.
00:49:38  Michi Rossmeier: onto the board, you know, then you… you are connected well. If you have the footstraps, like, this wide, and you… you're basically… you know, you can move around like that in a footstrap, or… or move it.
00:49:49  ymezentsev: It's a nice…
00:49:50  Michi Rossmeier: it's a nice theory that people tell me, that they have this so wide, and then they're like, yeah, it's nice, because I can move my foot, but then you will lose your board if you jump, so I don't know, I don't.
00:50:01  ymezentsev: You see that as well. And also…
00:50:03  Michi Rossmeier: If you're only here. I mean, I can't put my foot up now, but if you only come out with the toes a little bit, you're really not strong with the front of your foot. It's much easier to break something there, right, than if you are in the back and you're really… I think that's my theory, or my.
00:50:20  ymezentsev: Are your footstraps, because the board I have only will accept V-straps at the front, right? So… Yeah, I don't… Will you have a vision? Where's not.
00:50:32  Michi Rossmeier: Not yet, not yet, no. Still not yet. Yeah, yeah, I know, I know, I really…
00:50:37  ymezentsev: It'll be really handy. It'll be really handy, because more and more boards now just allow for V-straps at the front, that's it.
00:50:45  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah. Yeah, I will be… I have to be on it. That was also a question that somebody sent me. Oh, you sent me so many questions. Jumping freestyle. What else do we have? There was Carl asking… so these are questions that I got with the signups. Knees facing front of the board, or across the board, downward? for beginners when taxiing, yeah, Carl, I… this was… so, I think that's very much personal preference, and I always let people do… whatever they feel best with, you know? Like, are you still here, Carl? Yeah? Yeah, now you're here again. Maybe I was frozen, I don't know. So, yeah, I, What I do, usually, is even I let them go up and put the front foot in a foot strap right away, and back foot balancing sideways, front to back, like that, so I let them go up. Balance with the wing, and put front foot in the… in the foot strap, or let… let's say not in the foot strap, but… in the position of the footstrap, so that they are touching it. I don't want them to be stuck, but I have the front foot strap to have a reference of where they should be, then be on the knee, get the wing up, and stand up, and then get going. what I think, honestly, the sideways… the sideways thing on the board, like, if you're like this on a board, I don't… on with the knees, I don't… I don't like that so much, but… It may be easier to turn the board upwind that way, But, I don't know, it's… for… I really… people go up, and they feel better like that, and I'm like, try this, and if they feel better like that, I think it's also a bit the maneuverability thing, and… or how they get the upwind Turning the board upwind, how well they get that, and I think that's mostly the thing… it's very much personal preference. So that was Carl's question. You good, Carl, with that? Are you still here? Is Carl still here? Kar's gone, he will, he will see it in the recording. who else is here of the guys? Alessandro Tarifa, spot description… how to organize a holiday in Tarifa, yes.
00:53:07  iPhone di Alexander: I will come.
00:53:09  Michi Rossmeier: just message me, and I will be there organizing things. The best is to fly to Malaga or Seville. It's a 2-hour drive, roughly. Malaga is usually very good. with, carly, you missed your… the answer to your question, but you will have to read it, hear it in the recording.
00:53:30  ymezentsev: how are the beaches? Because the beaches here, they're just like rocks, you know? It's like…
00:53:35  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah.
00:53:35  ymezentsev: I step on rocks, and then, you know, sand is like… there's no sand, it's just rocks.
00:53:42  Michi Rossmeier: Oh, really? Even Flag Beach is not sandy anymore.
00:53:44  ymezentsev: Well, I haven't gone to Flag Bishop.
00:53:48  Michi Rossmeier: The tent was blown to the south, I think, in Fuerteventura. So, in Tarifa, it's… it's a 10-kilometer sandy beach, basically. from Tarifa town, and in the middle, there is a place, Torre de la Pena, which is rocky, and then it's, again, the sandy beach, and there's a big dune there.
00:54:07  ymezentsev: Do you need a car to… in Torifo?
00:54:09  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, yeah, so you fly to Malaga or Seville, usually. Usually, Malaga is a very good airport. You rent a car, if anyone needs links for that, I can… I mean. rentalcars.com. You just find a rental car there, really affordable there. Then, you have a 2-hour drive to Tarifa. There's a lot of apartments and places. If someone needs any suggestions, I'm happy to share that. I have a little promo. I have gear rental there, also. The Pro Gear service is my… Thing where we… where we deliver wing sets, like a board, two foils, and 3 wings to the customer's accommodation, and then we pick it up again after your holiday, so you don't have to bring it if you don't want to.
00:54:58  ymezentsev: Do you offer… but do you offer storage, or do you just… you store…
00:55:02  Michi Rossmeier: No, you're usually storage. I don't have a surf center or something, and you…
00:55:08  ymezentsev: socially.
00:55:09  Michi Rossmeier: You know.
00:55:10  ymezentsev: the reason for asking that is that once I got here, I realized that it's, like, impossible to park in August. Well, August, I don't know. Maybe June is better, but in Colejo, like, you can't park anywhere, like… Even in front of your apartment, it's hard to find parking, so…
00:55:26  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah.
00:55:27  ymezentsev: is in…
00:55:28  Michi Rossmeier: But…
00:55:28  ymezentsev: How's the parking situation on the beach in Taurizio?
00:55:31  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah, so July and August is… everything is full, of course, but the best times is outside… for sports, for water sports is spring and autumn, so everything apart from July and August until, let's say, December, January, February, can be very… can be very… a bit rainy, or so also, can… it… there… it… you really have to look at the forecast, but the rest of the time. it's… the parking situation on the beaches is much, much better. I remember for it being tricky sometimes. We have very big parkings there, and they are right behind the Chiringuitos, behind the beach bars. So there's Valdevaqueros, there's Bibo, Tangana, there's Punta Paloma, there's big parkings, and… you know, if you go there at noon or something, usually you always find the parking, especially out of the tourist season. And, And then you… usually you go to those places close to the dune, you have a very strong… you can have very strong wind from the left side shore, but we have a bay where there's… in the end, there's a… there's a dune, so it's pretty safe, unless you go out 5 kilometers or something, and the other direction of the wind is, like, side… onshore from the right. which is called Poniente, and it brings a little bit more swell, and it is a bit accelerated by the dune, and it's very nice.
00:56:49  ymezentsev: If you, if you, like, If you lose your board, you know, is it easy to go after it? I don't wear a leash now, which, you know, but is it easy to, like, body drag after it, or is there a rescue service that'll catch it for you, or something?
00:57:05  Michi Rossmeier: Well, not… not really, but I mean, there's a lot of wingfoilers. There is rescue service, but I think you wouldn't want to use a rescue service for catching your board. There is a rescue service in Darifa, it's very, very well, known. I mean, you buy vouchers, and you have them with you, and then you can, you don't pay the full fee, you pay the voucher.
00:57:27  ymezentsev: Yeah, yeah, I agree.
00:57:28  Michi Rossmeier: service. But, well, this is a matter of technique. Usually, you shouldn't be able to lose… you should not be able to lose your board. If you have the right technique, you turn the wing around and you drag after it. Usually, it doesn't happen, unless there's no more wind or there's really big waves, but… Okay. And we have a bay, a beach, which is pretty big. I mean, the people lose kiteboards all the time, and they always, usually, I mean, they get them at somewhere at the beach, they catch them again. A Wingfoilboard, I… I mean, there's always wingfoilers, and we, our wingfoilers, are usually very happy to help each other, so somebody would catch your wing or your board if you would lose it, yes.
00:58:12  ymezentsev: Is there, so do you… would June be the best month for, like, wind and… minimizing, you know, the… the… how busy it is, as in, you know, parking, and… because obviously August is insane, you know. I was in Maui last year, and I met this German guy, you're gonna say, I only go to Maui in August because you can't drop a pin in Europe on the beach, you know? And I just ignored him, I just thought he was just exaggerating.
00:58:41  Michi Rossmeier: Verify, yes.
00:58:42  ymezentsev: And then I'm here, and it's like, wow, you know, you can't even park your car. So, so you reckon June is, is, is, is, like, a good month to, to, to come.
00:58:52  Michi Rossmeier: The best is May, June, and September, October are the best months, usually, yeah.
00:58:56  ymezentsev: Is September still windy? Is it still… Windy?
00:59:00  Michi Rossmeier: choice.
00:59:01  ymezentsev: From the lift.
00:59:03  Michi Rossmeier: that's 50-50. In the last… I mean, many, many, many years ago, it was, like, the… the… the wind mecca of the… of the world, I don't know. I mean, there was, like, people windsurfing there with, 3-0… and 3-5 or something, and all the time, but it was always Levante, always very strong. Now, in the last years, it changed, and it… I would say, if you go a few weeks or so, you might end up with 50-50 of strong wind from the left, and this, more calmer wind from the right. But… or even in the 40 knots Levante, you can escape well, or you can, you can still ride, you can do nice downwinders, because it gets good swell outside on the ocean, and… There's more and more downrinners organized now with the strong winds from the left, with the Levante, yeah. I mean, just message me at some point, and I can give you more information, but basically. It is very nice months, May, June, and September, October. The whole pressure of summer is not there, because you feel it when there's middle of June, end of June. Suddenly, the weekends get crazy full. Same thing until the first weeks of September, when there's still… it's very busy, but then suddenly all the lifeguards on the beach go away, all the buoys on the water, they take them out, and it starts to more calm, or, you know, it's more the calm season, more calm time. So, that's terrifying, yeah. Let me see if I can answer one more question that I got from… peter asking me about camps in Germany, Auste, Noze, Kimse, Switzerland. Well, Peter, I am not so much drawn to there, and it's always a bit tricky to… I think the most difficult thing there is to have enough time and then be sure that there's wind. So, I mean, I would love to come somewhere for a few days, but then… If I go somewhere and there's no wind. It's really a pity, and it's a lot of money for people to pay, and so on, and if we can't… if you can't even wing at some places, it's just, it's just a pity. that's why I… I use… I mean, Lake Garda is amazing. I go there, I have 3-day camps, and even this year, we had, like. We had just more wind and more… water time that our bodies could handle. It was just, you know, we just go, we can sit down in the water, we can just play and do and try and this and that, and in the mornings, we do video analysis, and then We talk, and we have to have lunch quickly because we have another 6 hours of wind ahead of us, so it's just much easier to do it where the conditions are more sure. And that's why I do tend to do it there, and, like, it's always a big trouble for me to go, like, to… if you say Germany, Noze, I think that's… it's very tricky, I mean, to organize.
01:02:05  Peter Vana: Something with…
01:02:06  Michi Rossmeier: A specific time, you know.
01:02:08  Peter Vana: Just a question. Yeah, yeah, it would be…
01:02:13  Michi Rossmeier: Nice.
01:02:14  Peter Vana: Lake Garda, it's not the case, because… and thanks for your cooperation there, but you have to fly then, and for the total cost, it's much expensive than drive to Garda, say, with the car, yeah? And then to go to… to Delta… For me.
01:02:31  Michi Rossmeier: Especially if I do camps, coachings, whatever, then it's also a matter of the money. If I go there and I spend more than, you know, in the end, people… I can't ask for, you know, for all the trip and so on, unless we do a big camp, there is, So I have something, for example, in October, where I do really want a VIP camp, where I go for… specifically for, you know, to a trip, and then, of course, we have a great time. I'm happy to do that, but… here in the local area, probably it would need to have… I would need to have a, you know, just travel from here, and travel… drive around from one place to the other, and do a kind of a demo tour. That would be nice, but… For now, I don't really have the time to do that.
01:03:20  Peter Vana: Nope.
01:03:20  Michi Rossmeier: But thanks for the suggestion, of course.
01:03:22  Peter Vana: Ugh.
01:03:23  Michi Rossmeier: There is… what else do we have? Do we have James here? James? No, we don't have him here. He asked me a windsurf question, which is very interesting. He asked me on a… I will say it, because he might get the recording on a… it's last, or one or more. On a punch, are you leaning forward or back as you throw the sail down? On a punch, you throw the sail down, and you basically… jump over it. You can't lean back, because you can't follow the sale otherwise. I, if you want, go and message me, and then I will send you a few clips where I can explain that more in detail. We have a lot of old wingfollowers here now, so we… it's, it's interesting, but it's nice to have some winterfing questions also. What else do we have? Anyone else, a question? Otherwise, we see each other, hopefully, in a month.
01:04:18  Carl Spiess - Launch Pad Academy - Canada: How many people in the group can pump foil?
01:04:23  Michi Rossmeier: Who can pump foil?
01:04:25  Peter Vana: Not at the moment.
01:04:27  iPhone di Alexander: I can pump oil. Was… was not so difficult, because, If you do Wingfoil, I think in, Azo, in one week, you can learn, so… It's not so demanding.
01:04:45  Michi Rossmeier: I saw a very nice, thing from a friend. He got a pump scooter. You know, which is this thing with the… in the front with the handles, and then that removes a bit this moment where you have to, you know, balance on it. You can hold onto something and start moving, which I haven't tried yet, but I… it seems a good… a very good way to learn that. And otherwise, I guess the best way to start it would be the boat with the… with the pole, and you… so that you can balance first, and then… and start, you know, letting go slowly, and get calm… a calm pumping movement. What do you think, Alexander?
01:05:25  iPhone di Alexander: Actually, actually, it's, I am going to show you, because I'm going back to home, but, last frame, I show you where I started. It's like, in the lake, there is a dock, very stable. One moment, echo… So, if you… if you see, no? This, this kind of dock is perfect, because, you have no wave. And, you can go there, Just with your setup, and and, I'm regular, so… Have, the right direction also to go. Nothing. The difficult part was the start, but, actually, I… If I leave the foil from, from here. just, without, running and so on, I… I can pump, 2 minutes at the moment, so… And I started this season. But, yeah, it's like, At all. It's like, if you… it's like pumping with a Wingfoil, it's the same. The only issue is the start. So… Because if you have some wave, also in Tarifa, you can pump your foil with your wing in the back, and so on. The technique is the same. Of course, you have to be more efficient as possible. Because if your… if your master is totally submerged. You, you have more drug, and Your, your capability to, to go ahead, is, is not so high if you… if you have a lot of drug. So, probably… I think everybody that to do Wingfoil can, can do a pump foil. But you have to have a good dock, because I tried with another lake, with a different dock. And was, totally… a mess. Because, I started, 10 times to… to try, then again, and then I said, okay, I go home, because… I did one good try, but it was one try out of more than 10, I think. So, but there, there was the wave, there were some chain that was anchoring the dock to the… to the arbor. So the foil was, not able to go straight away. I have to jump in a different direction. And, as I say, the dock was moving, was not fixed like that, that I showed you. And there was a wave and a bit of wind, so… Was a different situation. And, but, an expert guy can do also that. I'm not expert of pumping. So… Nice. Thank you. at the Garda Lake, but at the Garda Lake, there are not so many people that is doing that. Because.
01:08:57  Michi Rossmeier: Well, we have so much… there's so much wind, and the other thing is that, these pump, these, docks, they are just… most of the docks are not good, and they are really strict with building anything, so that's why there's not even a perfect dock, otherwise we… somebody would have built it. But the rules of what you can build and whatnot in town there is more difficult. I mean, they pump more in the south, I guess. So, well, let me… well, let's… There's more questions. Best way to learn toeside riding and keep it constant after jibe, and afterwards to learn footswitch? Yes, Peter, only go… in your natural stance, don't try to learn toeside riding in your switch. So, I mean, if you're a regular, try to only learn it, practice it, try it first with your left foot front, if you're goofy with your right foot front. You do a jibe and keep on toeside riding. One important thing that I saw with people that have problems with toeside riding is try to not bend your knees. Try to be upright… fully straight, because when you're straight, you can bend your whole… you can twist your body better. If you go and bend your knees, your lower body, you can't twist that much, so stay fully upright. That's a very quick, answer. We can do more of that, next time, maybe. Then… Can anyone suggest a good follow-me drone for video analysis, Evgeny? I don't remember the name, but one of my clients in the camp, in the first one in July, had one of those, and now you find them easily. They're doing a bit of promotion, the last one that came out, and it worked really well, and it's the one that starts from the water. He had it. He was… he did 360s, and at one point, he was riding into it, and he crashed into it, but, nothing happened. Drone fell down, drone can start again, so… Nice,
01:10:57  Frank: Guys, if you are interested to know… get to know more info about that, please get in touch with me. I am… I did test the drone for an online video channel, and I can give you some more insights, if it is, worth the money or not. Please get in touch.
01:11:14  Michi Rossmeier: Cool.
01:11:14  ymezentsev: Sounds good.
01:11:16  Michi Rossmeier: So I… with this, I see a nice, thing here, people asking for answers, and this… the community thing, Frank, we talked about it last time. So I tried to hook up something where we can just keep on chatting between the Q&As, and maybe get the questions, running and up for the next one, and see where that goes. So I'm on that, like, last time you suggested this community idea.
01:11:40  Frank: True.
01:11:41  Michi Rossmeier: We'll try to hook something up so we can keep a bit of the conversation going. And then, with that, I thank you all, for joining. It was very nice to see you. All of you?
01:11:52  ymezentsev: I have a really quick one. Yeah. You're obviously on units, right? Is D-Lab worth it for, like, a 70 kilo rider? Or, like, I've been on DLABs for the last 2 years, and now I'm just wondering, maybe they're actually too stiff.
01:12:08  Michi Rossmeier: I don't think they're too stiff, because… so, I'm riding the SLS now. Always since last year, because I broke some DLABs, and I just was so annoyed that when I repaired that, nobody wants to buy it anymore, nobody wants it anymore, or it's even hard to repair. I mean, I was riding it the last week again, a new one, and I have to say, it's pretty amazing how light it feels, so if you're in the big wings, I think it makes sense. I still get, got all the white SLS for 2027, again, and they are really stiff, if… and especially, I mean, when… I mean, if you… they're really stiff, again, and they're really performing well.
01:12:52  ymezentsev: 25s or 26s, because the 26… They are new.
01:12:56  Michi Rossmeier: They're.
01:12:56  ymezentsev: a different…
01:12:57  Michi Rossmeier: Not… not then, like, 25. 25 was very soft, too soft. 25, we had to pump a bit more than it was even saying.
01:13:05  ymezentsev: Okay.
01:13:05  Michi Rossmeier: I don't know if I… I don't know if I should say that here.
01:13:08  ymezentsev: What do you mean?
01:13:08  Michi Rossmeier: But,
01:13:09  ymezentsev: We had to pump them.
01:13:10  Michi Rossmeier: more, because they were pending. The 26 was better, and the 27, for me, feels… it is different. It has… well, actually, they are released today or tomorrow, I think.
01:13:20  ymezentsev: There's got windows, yeah. I saw on the beach, Nick Baker of Barker, he had them, so yeah. They look, you know, they're more square, and they've got big windows, finally, and
01:13:33  Michi Rossmeier: Yes. They have a different, the pressure, the center of gravity, while it was, like, this big when you were riding one-handed. Before, it was one point only, now you can move the hand… you can place the hand wherever in two… like, it's… the center of gravity became this wide. It feels a bit strange in the first time when you're riding, but then… you don't want to ride the other ones anymore, the 25, 26. You're like, you're like, it's so limiting then, and the front, the… also the point, the center of gravity moved forward a lot. So, it is… it is different. And first, it's a bit unfamiliar, but then you don't want to miss that, so it's pretty good. So I'm going with SLS, I don't, get DLABs. Maybe I get a 4 or 5 in DLAB, but I think for now, I'm with SLS, and I like them a lot.
01:14:25  ymezentsev: Is that your biggest size for freestyle? For fights?
01:14:29  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah. I was surprised on the 27, because 4… 5 is really big for me, I was always using 4… 3-5s. I was also always using small wings, but now with the Palau moves, all the Palau combos and stuff that are coming out, everybody rides a bit bigger, and I found that… and it's amazing that even on the 27 model, suddenly. I'm landing 720s on a… on a… on a… on the 4.5 even, which I was… two years ago, I was… it was, like, the wing is way too big, and now it works… it spins really well, also, and really controlled, and it's really nice with the… pressure point so far forward with the center of gravity that you come out of tax, and it really accelerates you out of tax, even. While in the other one, you had to look for the power, now it's powering you out of those, and it moves really well. It's really nice. I have to say, very, very good, Very good change for 27, yeah. Good.
01:15:24  ymezentsev: I'm selling my DLAB, so if anyone's interested, know if there's me.
01:15:30  Michi Rossmeier: Yeah. So, anyway, thanks a lot, everyone, for joining. I have to, run for dinner, and, thanks a lot. I will try to keep everyone in, the loop, and I hope to get a kind of community feature going over the next… one or two weeks, so that we can stay in touch, and I will do another Q&A in a month. I hope that's… that's a good, month-to-month thing, and I would love to see you guys again, and invite your friends, and I… and I hope it… it is… it was a nice discussion again.
01:16:05  Michael Marotta: Thank you.
01:16:06  Michi Rossmeier: Thanks for sharing, and yeah, see you, soon on the beach, or next month.
01:16:12  Peter Vana: Thank you.
01:16:13  Frank: Thank you!
01:16:13  Michi Rossmeier: All right.
01:16:14  Frank: Right.
01:16:14  Michael Marotta: Thanks again.
01:16:15  Michi Rossmeier: bye. Doctor out.
01:16:19  Frank: tall.